# https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cHp7HqUfBe0

I wanted to start by getting your perspective. When you think about being an executive at a scale up startup, what's the difference between somebody who's very good and someone who's extraordinary? Some of what I would say is, and this was something that Stripe valued, and I think a lot more companies are generally valuing this, which is you have to be able to operate simultaneously at 30,000 ft and ground level. So, from a 30,000 ft perspective, you have to develop a multi-year point of view on where you ought to go and how to get there, which I will say feels harder than ever in the current moment that we're in, >> just given the amount of change. >> Yeah. with AI like I you just don't really have a sense for if I put together a two-year plan is that reasonable. So I I I think that's one and then at the same time you're still hardcore building a company. So there are all sorts of operations that are not yet operational and there can be a pretty big gap between that 30,000 ft view and what needs to be true to realize it. And not everybody at your company has had the experience before to know how to go and say, "Okay, well, this was Jean's northstar. I know how to turn that into an hour by hour, minuteby minute operating reality." And so you're in some cases building that yourself. Uh you're in other cases coaching somebody who's, you know, has the the will but not yet the skill. and then in other cases being able to delegate more freely to somebody who has done it before and can bring that vision to life. >> How do you think about those two big jobs to be done in various points of scaling? So if you're at a 500 person company, a,000 5,000 10,000 does that change pretty dramatically or do you think it's somewhat similar? >> I think there are parts of it that are similar. So you know when I was at Stripe we were I think 8,000 people by the time I left. Um, Verscell is now north of 600. And as a leader, I'm always sort of figuring out what are the three big rocks that either I'm not going to be in the weeds on, but I'm going to be reviewing and very very close to or the things that are so hard to figure out exactly what's the right way to approach it that I I'm going to get in there almost like an IC alongside the working group. I think like as a as a company scales, if you've done a good job of hiring, you do have more people that you can give a northstar to, give a set of metrics to, and like you don't have to be in the nuts and bolts of that thing. So it's a bit more maybe of like an altitude question, but it doesn't change the fact that as an effective executive, there are set of things where you're going super deep either personally doing the work or deeply deeply reviewing it, you know, and then a set of other things where you're have confidence that the team's going to go execute without you being super close. And maybe if you take a snapshot across a couple of the points in your career in sort of the different executive seats, what is the outcome that you are responsible for? You know, it's as an IC, it's very clear you're a PM, you're working on a product or you're an engineer, you're deploying some piece of code. I mean, you spent a decent chunk working on different parts of the revenue or that it's just I have to hit this number in this segment and that's my job. Or you think about results differently than that. It's a sort of multi- you're thinking about things on multiple time horizons. So I am accountable to specific results within a year but an executive is meant to be long tenured. My career has been marked by basically two nearly decade long tenurs. Hopefully Verscell will be a third for that. Um and so executives have decadel long stints because you are able to replicably produce results year after year after year. And so that means you need to be you know the bulk of your team is going to be focused on executing for inear results whether that's in product or go to market etc. You have to have a set of leaders who then are also capable of thinking about well what about next year and then you as a leader need to be thinking you know even past that how is the competitive dynamic changing how is you know the market around me changing is our I work in sales but how do I feel about our product roadmap relative to what I'm seeing in customer conversations I think that's probably the other thing that you're doing as an executive is you've got you've got a functional swim lane you own but most effective executives are going to looking more broadly, you know, do I feel like the finance or is using the right set of metrics to measure success and allocate resources again, do I feel like product has the correct roadmap that's constantly going to keep us competitive? Um, and so I think any really strong executive typically is thinking more as a general manager with depth in the particular thing that they own, but also an ability to make trade-offs that might not be in their own self-interest because it's going to set them up for success or the company up for success really in the long long run. are the things that tend to keep star talent from ascending to sort of the top spot in maybe any functional area or in the seauite CRO etc. So like they get up to being a star VP of sales and they just never become one of the generational CRO or they are in any of the other functions. They're an incredible VP of ops. They're never going to be a COO if they're coming up in that. Are there things that tend to stitch together all the people that get stuck other than bad luck or they chose the wrong company or anything like that? >> I do think it's an ability to transition into systems thinking. Um, so if you move from an IC into an operator into a leader, it's not about you anymore. It's about can you get a group of people to execute the way you as an IC would have done a thing. I think actually one of the biggest leaps in leadership to make is going from a frontline manager to a second line manager. So there you got to learn to delegate and get comfortable with that. But you're going to, you know, seven direct reports on average, like you're pretty darn hands-on. Um, when you get to manager of managers, you can't now go and be in every deal, be in every product review, all that type of stuff. And so you now have to design a system. You have to understand what are the metrics that you need to be watching. What are your leading indicators to know when something's off track? What are forums that you need to review? Um, who are your key people? How do you keep a pulse on what's actually going on through them? And so I think often where people get stuck is they try to scale via what has made them successful so far um and basically just continuously become a super IC rather than empowering the other people around them to be excellent IC's as well. >> What's the balance there between sort of empowering people and also being in the details? I think one of the things that you started to say and I think my guess is knowing you a little bit over the years and certainly the culture of Stripe is that there's the altitude shifting and so it's not just here's my six leads underneath me I'm just focused on them there's a lot of diving into the details and so like how do you think about that in what conditions you're sort of behaving in what way >> I think a big thing for a leader is pattern recognition um and so one of the ways ways I get at that is by staying close to the most effective people at various layers in the organization. Um so in a sales or as an example, I will spend a lot of time selling alongside our some of our top sellers because I want to see is their messaging evolved. Um you know are is is my pitch starting to diverge from their pitch and what does that mean about my own slash the one that a hundred other people are doing? are they getting a new set of objections that they're handling effectively? Um, so that's sort of one way I'll do things. And then the other one, I mean, it's sort of different version of of an earlier answer, which is the projects that are key to driving step function change in some area. You know, typically at the outset, like I'm in the room with you doing the whiteboard. Like when you write your first brief on it, you've got to comment on every other sentence from me on how to do something. Like for the first three meetings while we're getting the project out of the ground, like I'm there actively participating right alongside you. And then when I sort of feel confident like, okay, this thing's got exit velocity. Great. will go into bi-weekly, monthly, whatever is an appropriate review cadence because I now sort of feel confident that we have a shared mental model, which I think is another big thing you're trying to do as an executive is one of the things I I always feel I've succeeded is um I'll have people who work for me say, you know, Gene, I was I was in a meeting earlier today. We were discussing XYZ and I sat there and I thought to myself, what would Gan do? And if I've done a good job of helping you understand my mental model, then nine times out of ten, you should be able to ask yourself that question and come up with the answer I would have come up with had I been there alongside you. >> What are examples of the types of things you're trying to teach? >> I mean, so you can have processes that facilitate this. OKRs are an example of that. Um, you know, all hands, how you communicate priorities, staff meetings, you know, we always kick off every one of my staff meetings with Jean's top of mind, which is meant to communicate my mental model. So maybe some other things within go to market actually at the company this has been helpful is like a segmentation framework so we can all talk about customers the same way we talk a lot in go to market I'm a big proponent of lead to revenue models of an operating model where you've broken down all the funnel math so we can have a similar way of evaluating performance where things are green or not those are you know sort of other examples I think of like operating mechanisms that basically also give you a shared language Another example of that actually within sales is often you'll have like a sales methodology that you brought in um which lets you I mean medic is a common discovery framework but it's it's also another way to speak the same language. I think that that's a challenge you can sometimes have at companies where you're sort of speaking past each other. Um and so shared metrics with common definitions that's a great way to have finance product sales all speak the same language. segmentation framework often at companies is a go to market thing. At Stripe, I strived really hard to have that be a company thing. At Purcell, it was a little easier to just come in and this is going to be a company thing. And now actually every new hire, I deliver one of our company values is KYC, know your customer, and I deliver the KYC onboarding session where I walk through every new hire at the company. Here's how we think about customers, how we break it down. Here's what our customer base looks like. So again, you sort of have a shared mental model across the whole company. >> What do you think are the hardest areas of the business to develop shared context on a team? >> A lot of startups is product market fit, right? So when you aren't yet replicably selling into a segment, a vertical, you know, however you're cutting your customers, is that because the product isn't good enough there or is it because your go to market isn't strong enough there? So we're going through that one now at Verscell where you know a really beloved product by startups and developers. We've had some awesome enterprise wins but to what degree do we actually have enterprise product market fit? You know you get situations where you've got these wins. So if you work in product and engineering that suggests in your mind well if one enterprise brought it surely all of them can right? And so this must be a go to market problem of like you're not doing a good enough job of bringing forth the value of our product and all these other enterprises. Whereas a go to market team might say well actually we have the following feature gaps that we need to do to make this more expansive. So we're trying to right now get at it both from a datadriven perspective of just objectively speaking if you use that 3x two I just articulated where is our revenue today where is it growing organically and then within go to market preparing our point of view on in each of those boxes for each of our product lines what's our view on the degree to which we're like totally green we can sell this to every company on the planet in that segment versus hey you we're halfway there. There's a set that we're really strong at and then a set where you might need one or two things and then here's where we need to build into with the hope then that we can agree on those and either we put certain things on the road map and therefore we'll plan to go pursue revenue in that segment or we say this is not the year of X product and Y segment. If you take a step back and you look at your job of being the COO of a 600 person company and you were take a blank sheet of paper out and sort of just start from scratch to say, okay, what is the job description of a COO by your definition for a company of this scale? What's on the piece of paper? >> This is one of the tougher things about the COO role is there's not sort of a canonical definition of a COO to start. The definition like my functional job at Verscell is a soup to nuts go to market role. So I have marketing all of sales all of your technical sales functions customer success support partnerships basically touches a customer makes a dollar it's in my remmit. That that's not necessarily the the typical COO role. If you took Stripe under Claire she had people but didn't have marketing at the outset had marketing at a later point. I often think COO is sort of like the set of functions that a founder knows are incredibly important and doesn't personally want to manage at this particular moment in time. But broadly I sort of think of of my job is is two things. One is go execute the functions that I run excellently turn those into you know predictable engines and then two enable the company to run more effectively. Um, and so that'll be things like company planning or even though data science doesn't roll up into me, how do we have more uniform metrics across the company? How do we do things like a uh segmentation framework? Where are there places on people that we want to dive into? Our executive uh team is doing a half day offsite tomorrow. And one of the sessions I'm leading is we're currently doing planning. And so that's a lot of the what of you know what's going to be the revenue target and and what are we going to do to get there and tomorrow's session is all about the how. So when you're scaling as rapidly as Verscell is, there are going to be a lot of things that are working about your culture that you actually need to be thoughtful about ensuring you carry forward and then certain things that worked really well at a certain scale that aren't going to work at the next scale that you want might want to refine. Um, so we're going to spend some time talking through our >> How do you figure that out? Is it just judgment? >> I think like a lot of well-run companies like we use Culture AMP. So we actually do our employee engagement surveys. We just shifted now to doing them three times a year. So you have data about the places that your own executive team thinks things are and aren't working. You know, your employee base does. So it'll bring that to bear. And then I'm planning to basically also do a bit of a stop, start, continue of just like four folks in the room. What's our views on the things that are working and not? And I think that'll be elucidating on the degree to which we all agree. I imagine there are going to be some places where we do and others that we don't. And that in itself is something that you want to surface and work through because if executives don't believe on an aspect of the how you actually will not have cultural uniformity on a thing that might have said say been really important to GMO and we did in fact need to codify >> and you're doing this with your exec team or the exec team of the company. So this is this would be you know chief product officer, CFO, head of people um etc. >> What's the benefit based on your time at VCEL of packaging the COO role in the way that it is at Verscell as you outlined and like what are the tradeoffs or clearly there are downsides to any given org configuration? How would you kind of group those things? >> One of the things I'm really excited about in it is like it does give endto-end ownership of the customer experience. So like we are the external facing functions. You do have a singular owner of of the revenue, right? So you can't have sales point its finger at marketing. Marketing point its finger at sales because I own both of them. So it's my job to make that work. How I often describe is I feel like marketing and sales end up being this like ven diagram of a of a strategy and then you have the same thing actually with sales and support often and then everyone winds up doing each other's job. Um and so I think if I'm doing my job right that feels more like an integrated strategy in a continuum um rather than um you know somewhat overlapping set of goals I think that's the benefit similarly from like a feedback into the product and engineering org you often have you know support has this set of asks sales has this set of asks you know marketing might be thinking about what we want to sell in the future you know they have this set and now EPD has to go decide all right of these three inputs like how do I stack rank them whereas if I'm doing my job effectively I ought to say I've looked across all of these and here's what I think is the right strategic mix of those I think those ought to be the benefits from drawbacks I mean a COO role has a fair amount of breadth so across my functional remmit I have places where I have depth and places where I've historically been adjacent to that and so I have a lot of exposure to it but it's not like I'm a 20-year marketer you've got to believe I'm gonna hire well and then manage well for that particular function. Um, and I think that's often true with a COO is you'll spike in certain areas and then you sort of have to believe you can cover the others. >> Why did it make sense in the context of Versel specifically in the marketing function to roll up under you given that it's such a marketing and brand ccentric company? Was there like one the natural thing I think is you see a founder that has those type of brand and taste sensibilities and so they would want marketing very close to them and not being disintermediated. Was it just that the entire owning the endto-end customer experience is so much more valuable that the trade-off is worth it basically? >> I think so. I think it's interesting like I mean marketing is is brand and then it is >> demand genosphere of your revenue engine. A lot of founders, GMO is a good example. John and Patrick were examples of this well are like excellent brand marketers, but that does not a predictable revenue engine make on its own. Um, and so I think that, you know, G and I got to a point while, you know, through the interview process where he was had enough confidence that I was going to let him continue to be chief brand officer and then I could go build that machine that was going to drive our B2B growth. >> So, do you have that explicitly carved out or No, it's just more informal. No, it's all it's more informal, you know, like the way I operate as a leader is like I've always been somebody where it's like, all right, if you want to talk to some a direct report of mine, you don't have to go through me, just go talk to them. Like, you know, it's my my job to have broad awareness of like what needs to be true to achieve the set of results we're going for, but like I don't need to be in charge of all of it. Um, so my CMO as an example, I'm like, you should have weekly one-on- ones with G. I want you to know what he's thinking about. you know, I want to know I want you to know all the things he's concerned about from a brand perspective. And then, you know, he and I can debrief and figure out when there are places where we might need to prioritize something differently or, you know, whatever the case may be. But I don't have a need to like block any of that or be an intermediary of it. How do you think about your role in the team that is under you in being incredibly demanding and supporting? >> I think this is one of the things that people say is like differentiating about me is the ability to sort of be in that upper right quadrant of supporting and demanding. Um, I think, you know, on the demanding front, one, it's a standard I hold myself to. Two, I think most people that I'll hire and work with like really do want to produce excellent results. Um, the thing then that like is differentiating is the ability to bring the supportive, which is I'm going to bend over backwards to help you get there. And so I think the folks, you know, who have worked for me for a long time, you get into that dynamic where, you know, I'm going to be your best sounding board. I'm somebody who you can bring problems to that you don't have to be worried about. It's fine to take things to me in draft form and, you know, we'll we'll work through stuff and as long as you're being communicative, upholding commitments, like you know, we'll figure it out. But when folks are not upholding commitments, not escalating issues, sort of not letting bad outcomes happen that we haven't tried to intervene and solve is sort of when you get into more issues. >> Do you find that it's hard to calibrate or manage between those or it's just very intuitive? >> Honestly, I think it's in intuitive. I'm doing a lot of executive hiring right now. So, we hired a CMO in June. Just hired a global head of field engineering less than a month ago in the market for a CRO. I spend a fair amount of time with those folks while while in the interview process. One of the things I actually do throughout the interview process is a fair amount of coaching them cuz if I'm going to hire you, we'll have that type of dynamic. So, in an interview process, I'm also here to set you up for success and see, you know, if we go back and forth in that capacity, does it result, you know, in in you doing well in some of these forums versus sort of let's hang you out to dry and see what you can independently produce. So by the time I hire people, I feel like we've built like a pretty solid working relationship. I meet very frequently with new executives when they start. You're trying to be in constant communication. So again, we can develop that shared mental model. I'm fortunate enough that our CMO and I take the same ferry to work. So he and I have all sorts of ad hoc one-on-ones. Um but you know, you're pretty quickly just trying to get to that safe space of like we are going to talk about the business. We're going to talk about how to make the business better and then we're going to you know partner in the places where that makes each of us more effective and go off and conquer where each of us sort of knows exactly what we want to do and can just go execute. >> What's the core of an interview for you when you're running an exec search for your own team? >> So my first interview is sort of like just birectional learning more about your background going pretty deep into the things you've done and then selling you a fair amount in a very not selling actually mostly telling you these are the problems that this is the reason I'm hiring your role. I have the following issues that you will need to come and resolve. Um and I find that by putting those things out on the table in the first meeting basically you get a sense pretty rapidly for does that person get motivated by solving those things or not. >> So what did that sound like for the CMO search when you're communicating this is the job to be done? Yeah, for the CMO search it was, you know, we're moving up market into enterprise. So, we've got some early enterprise wins, but we don't have enterprise awareness, enterprise brand recognition. So, we got to go build an enterprise machine. Second was we do not have an investable model. So, I need somebody who's going to come in and build uh you know a real demand genen machine where we know we can put a dollar in, we'll get this money out. So, like I need somebody who is into the quantitative aspects of this. Another big one was Verscell now actually has like a lot of surface area product surface area. So had been known for front-end cloud. We now do a bunch in security. At the time AI was still a little bit more nent. Now it's not, you know, but basically was like we're going to have to do some major positioning work to actually figure out how do you graduate into being, you know, much broader set of products while not losing the core of what got us here. and then you sort of describe the realities of some of the messiness behind all of that. Um, so that's sort of like my first call. My second call, I typically send a prompt for before where basically be like, okay, I teed up these areas in the first call. Now I actually want to go and spend this entire hour talking about those four and things you have done that are similar at prior companies and then how you might think about starting to tackle it here >> and what's excellence like you leave that second meeting going through that prompt and you're like I desperately want to spend more time with this >> typically I have learned something I have learned multiple insight >> yes you know often early like you know that second meeting they already are giving me a mental model I didn't have they're talking to me either about a thing they did where I can immediately see oh if we did that here it would work. So I generally leave that second call if it's somebody who has a shot at being hired very excited about oh okay like I I would be able to not pay attention to these things because you are better at that than I. Same thing just happened with the field engineering leader on that second call. while he was pulling up like some dashboards that he had built and talking me through how they run their proof of concepts and I was like we do none of that and you just told pointed out five metrics that I did I've never heard of. So that's sort of that second call. Then we fan out into meeting other folks. Um and so a lot of these rules at at Versell it's incredibly important that you get product depth and you will be credible with our EPD organizations. We've got those meetings, you know, we're getting into to people topics, etc. Then we'll regroup coming out of those. Next one then is a 90minute workshop. So there you are doing work product. We have three prompts. Typically they align to stuff you would expect be expected to do in your first 90 days. And then they'll do a one-on-one with G. Any executive reporting to me has got to be somebody he also trusts and would go directly to. And then then we'll do stuff with uh folks that are going to be their direct reports. >> What's a prompt? >> Yeah. So CRO we're doing right now. First one is effectively we give them you're going to go talk to Nike's CTO. So Nike reason I picked this Nike on Next.js. They're not on Versell. They you know have a CDN and WAF. They clearly are investing in AI. So they sort of have all the things you could possibly sell to them. and this person is going to have to figure out. We are not yet excellent at executive selling. So, I'm curious how they come up with a value proposition for that executive. I'm going to be interested in the degree to which they go really research our product and can speak intelligently to why if you're self-hosting NextJS, that might not be a great call for you. So, that's sort of the first one is basically like do they start to geek out on our product? >> And do you only give like a oneline prompt or you're giving supporting material? Uh, it's like two small it's probably six sentences total, but it's it's two small paragraphs. So, that's the first one. >> If they ask you for additional information, do you give it to them? >> Um, so actually with both CRO candidates that were about to bring on site, I did prep meetings with both of them, which is also a really interesting interview. What do they ask me? How are they thinking about breaking down these problems? >> In doing so many of these problems, I found that if you could not have somebody do the problem, but you just have the pre-all where they're asking questions, that's is a high signal. I actually think that was one of the reasons I wound up getting employed at Burcell is I had to do the homework assignment and they set me up uh with one of one of the VPs to walk me through, you know, I can ask whatever questions and I think I did that was probably my best interview. But yeah, so our our our second one is all about are you going to be a tight operator? So it's digging into what's your operating cadence, what are the metrics you're looking at, you know, how would you drive results? So just basically looking at what's their machine and then in the conversation can they contextualize it? So will they be able to say hey I did this really well at the company I'm at currently here's a way ways in which I think that would likely pull through directly to Purcell and ways at which like I might tweak. Our last one is, you know, link versell is like a 99th percentile AI company and one of the things I'm passionate about is bringing AI to bear on everything that we're doing and go to market to really build a unique AI forward experience. And so the last prompt is about that. You know, the world's your oyster. You've got a GTM engineering function. You've got a killer data science team. You basically blank check for me to go AI is what you're going to run. Tell me what you do. And there I'm trying to figure out are they creative? Do they have good ideas or are we mostly going to be running out last year's playbook? >> Is there a thread that ties together all the failed executives that you've hired in your career or they all didn't work out for all sorts of random reasons? >> Maybe a more interesting way just cuz at Stripe we hired so many. So if I go beyond just the ones I hired, um I think it was a couple things. One was typically they did not actually go get their hands dirty. Actually the thing I should have started with was they had a playbook and they did not contextualize it. Um so I think a lot of executives over pattern match and do not have intellectual curiosity to figure out what's different. We had a lot of this at stripe where you had AWS you know consumption based business model that feels like it ought to be similar and actually like payments has fundamentally different margin profile. It's totally different competitive space etc. So I think that's first is over pattern matching and not going and getting your hands dirty to adjust. Second was did not culturally adapt. I saw this happen at Google. I saw this happen at Stripe which was like you ended up with we had an Oracle leader at one point in the or I was in and so that org started to feel like a googly version of Oracle. So we had you know pockets of that at Stripe as well. And then typically it was also a failure to uh develop your network and collaborate effectively to get buyin from other orgs. Do you think in the way that you outlined how you approach evaluating exact talent, it's quite good at screening all that out or these are the pockets of error that no matter what you do, it's surprisingly hard to figure that out before somebody joins and is 8 weeks in or 90 days in or whatever. I've gotten better at the can this person contextualize in particular. I think a lot of times when you're hiring an executive, you get like shiny resume syndrome. And so now like if you go back to the three questions I just outlined, the middle one is really meant to be like all my questions during that portion of the on-site will be like, well, how would you tweak it given this? How would you figure out whether or not that's relevant? and I'm actually looking for folks to open by saying, "Hey, I don't know enough about your context. I'd hypothesize the following might be true and therefore this is transferable, right?" So, if they open that way, great signs. You know, if not through the discussion, can we pull out mental flexibility? I think that's one. I think it's probably harder to get. I mean, the network one I try to get at by lots of crossunctional interviewing, right? So like Tommo, our CPO, is on all of my executive loops because he's got to be as excited about this person as I am. So that's that's meant to correct for that one. I mean, the workshop is a great way to force an executive to go get their hands dirty. Like a lot of those people won't have written a two to three page doc by themselves all alone for a long time, right? So you'll have to bring me back a year from now and see if I've done a good job with everybody. Do you think most of the best executives were extraordinary I see in the function or it's non-correlated? So the best CRO at one point was an unbelievable seller, top 1%. >> I tend to think there's some of that. I do think I'm better at my job having been deep in sales within the CRO COO remmit. I am better at how do I really push the sales org than how do I really push the marketing org because I know in sales when I am making an ask that is hard but it is reasonable whereas in marketing I may not have that same reasonleness. I do think that that matters. I actually also somebody asked me a question along these lines at a at a dinner a month or so ago. I hypothesize it may matter more in the AI era. Um because a lot of what you're trying to do is now in part functional acumen not only to your team but to an agent. Like a very tactical example of this was I launched a GTM engineering team in the first six weeks on the job um at Verscell. So basically we took three sales engineers like congrats you're now founding members of our GTM team where we're going to go bring agents to bear across everything in GTM. The first thing we tackled was building a lead agent. So people who contact sales this would help qualify them more effectively. So we had one of the GTM engineers work with a top performing SDR on that team and they did a lot with human in the loop and basically after about 6 weeks we were ready to largely take humans out of the loop because it was now performing in line with all the human-based KPIs we were using. Then a couple weeks ago, so this has been running since uh the start of August. We now have built this thing called a playbook platform where we're have all these plays that have agents running. So, I was playing around in that to go make sure I'm still aware of what's going on this playbook platform. So, I click in to some of the emails that the uh agent is recommending we send as a first response. And, you know, I was like, "Ooh, that's actually not what I would have said." And I realized it's because even though that was modeled after our best-in-class SDR, I have 20 more years of sales experience than that best-in-class SDR. And so I know a little bit better like what you should say if an executive wants to talk to you about a product than that person did. And I I think you're going to see that AC across a lot of places where actually like functional depth combined with your depth of context in your company. Those two things together are are kind of what makes AI work better. >> What have you figured out about metrics? What is kind of pnikity or difficult about them? What are the things that seem obvious but when you run a business on this type of number there are these issues like do you have wholesale like you spent so much time trying to govern businesses as they scale with numbers. Is there a handful of things that you figured out that are kind of truths in in what goes on when you pick a number? Two things I would say. Thing one is I'm a huge believer in driver trees. Um so literally can you start at the top total revenue and break that down into the hundred different nodes that actually drive that outcome. Um, and can you do that X antie so that throughout the course of the year if revenue, you know, is green or some other color, you know, exactly either what's working well that you can lean into more or what's not or you can course correct. That is like a biggie that I try to get in place anywhere. So, >> what you would think of is like leading metrics or drivers to some lagging metric or output. >> Yeah, it's ba, you know, basically, okay, you've got total revenue. Um, so what is that going to be? It's going to be net new revenue from new customers. It's, you know, existing revenue for existing, expansion from existing. Okay, net new revenue that comes from, you know, you can break down by segment all the way down to the bottom. So, that that was actually one of the first things I did my first 30 days at Verscell was in the go to market side put together a lead to revenue model, which is here's exactly everything that needs to be true. how many leads we're going to need, at what rate will those convert into an opportunity, at what rate will we win them, what will be the ACV, how much time will it take by segment, by geo, massive model. And you want to do that at a company level as well, so that you can be aligned across the engineering side of it too. So that's that's sort of one is like actually understand your drivers and which are levers. So I'll give you another example on this. When we did the lead to revenue model, it the model for Verscell this year was most sensitive to our ACV. So the most credible way for me to increase revenue growth rate was that particular area. Similarly, in our PLG funnel, we also built the lead to revenue model um where that one the biggest one was actually our signup conversion rate. So that helps you figure out where to focus. So two is actually the definition of a metric. This was a challenge we had for a while at Stripe when we brought in a bunch of new executives at the same time. Sales will define revenue a certain way, typically more bookings oriented. Finance will define it differently, perhaps gap revenue. Um, and EPD might define it another way that might actually be more usage oriented than actually the revenue dollars or it might be revenue dollars but you know some error variant. I've frequently found that depending on if you don't have the exact same definition, then you can have things be green or red depending on what how you're cutting the data and looking at it. And so that was a a big thing that we focused on for a while and getting right at Stripe was a singular way to review the business across go to market, EPD and finance. go to market could then lead the room and run a forecast call with the way we were going to look at quota and target but you needed to report out on it collectively with the same way to cut the data. We sort of have had the same thing actually coming to Verscell. I sat down with finance to look at that one as well because we had a quarter where you had one result on on bookings but actually sales was super green but you'd had a a turn somewhere in the business. So sort of total revenue that that the company was looking at was was different. So I think that's the biggest way is like we cannot debate metrics like they have to be set definitions agreed and then we're all out and we all agree if this is green we all think it's green and you know if it's not we're all fixing it. What was the difference between like how the group decided revenue should be accounted for at Stripe and the way the group decided revenue should be accounted at Verscell and how does that map to how you actually go about bringing clarity to a given metric? Stripe always had I think it's shifted more since I've left, but payments was one of the earlier consumption based businesses, but it was really unusual for a long time to do a committed contract. Um because payments actually is arguably maybe the first ever consumption based business. And so sales would sign deals. They weren't technically bookable. So you were sort of approximating the value of them. and that may or may not realize that was one of the things that sort of would get us wrapped around the axle sometimes. And then sales looks at stuff again on the basis of how we're quotaing people. And so there you can get some things as well where um if we're grossing up on partner revenue, right? You can be hitting your quota from a sales perspective, it looks different from a revenue perspective. Sort of it's basically a bookings revenue mismatch in many cases. So that's one of the things in at Verscell, we've just decided we're going to look at things on a gap revenue basis. Just make it simple. Again, I'll have my forecast call, but I'm going to translate that into gap revenue basis when we talk about it as an executive level. >> When you think about um company health or health inside of your part of the organization, what is the hardest thing to find numbers to govern? Product marketing is is one mostly in that it is less isolatable. So, you know, if you're in charge of both launching and then landing, you've got to work closely with the demand genen team, you're working, you know, with with parts of sales, that's a little bit of one that you maybe you can tie like day of launch metrics to product marketing, but that's not why product marketing exists. Brand is another one, right? that has certainly has metrics around it, but you're looking you can do all sorts of awareness studies. Um, but there are certain things that are less immediately quantifiable within sales. You got different like h how exactly do you determine just how effective your revops or is typically there's a little fields of like are they helping you with throughput, but like how do exactly would you quantify whether or not you have an A or an A+ RevOps team? I'm not totally sure the answer to that one. How do you think about your job as a peer on the executive team? Right? You have your own body of work that you're owning and you're a part of the org and the outputs and outcomes that come of that. And at the same time, you sort of wear this other hat which is you're one of a handful of a number of people that are kind of governing the entire business and you're a manager of your exec team and a teammate or peer of this other team. What are your thoughts on specifically when you wear that hat what you're trying to do to be effective? I think most folks like if you've done the kind of five dysfunctions of a team, right? You're supposed to think of your pure set as your primary team. And so in that forum, I'm meant to help facilitate better outcomes for the company while bringing my functional perspective to bear. Um, but I think that means you're going to wade outside of your functional area pretty frequently. Like our chief product officer this morning, I woke up to a lot of feedback on aspects of the sales process. He's uh just took a couple sales calls with us, which was great. It was super motivating for me. You know, there are things where he was wanting to also check, hey, you know, I'm I'm newer to sales myself. So, just tell me if this is how this works or this felt off to me, like I think we could do better here. You know, similarly, I'll go give feedback obviously on a road map coming in while we were getting set up here. I was, you know, messaging back and forth the CFO about some of the like budgeting decisions we might want to be dialing up or down in Q4 sort of given what we're thinking about for FY27 plan. So I think like in general like you want as an executive you need to be highly accountable to having your function do its job but you should just be contributing more broadly to what are the set of things that you think are more likely to make the company successful. One of the ways in which I saw this actually like work the best um at Stripe sort of late in my tenure there Stripe got much much much more rigorous about the budget is the budget like the we've got headcount opex and like that will be the number that we have collectively as as a company and across the course of the year opportunities would emerge that you would want to fund and you had this concept of self-solving and would frequently donate headcount, take it out of my P&L, go give it to product because I actually think if they can go do this thing, I'm more likely to make money over here. >> How did that work? Because I think the the the sort of normal dynamic would be everybody builds their FFT, right? A new dollar comes available and everyone on the exact team is trying to grab that. So what was the dynamic where that was the inverse? >> One, you had actually a leadership team at that point that had worked together for quite some time on average and so there we had built a fair amount of trust. There was a lot of work that Will Gabe did to his credit to get all of product go to market finance in sort of the same room. Like we ran basically a 30 person leadership team for a while which is a lot uh to have in a weekly staff meeting to have in every single offsite that you're doing quarterly. It was a lot of time with 30 people. But I do think that built a level of trust and I I wish I had like a more framework based answer for you, but it literally would be like I'm in a room with Fran Ryan, John Faky, they were two of the more senior engineering leaders and we'd just be like all right guys like this thing's not tracking. I think if I like gave you two partnership heads and you put them on that engineering team, we'd actually make that thing bright green whereas like this is not going to really go from red to yellow. Um, and it was truly just some of the better like same team functioning that I've been a part of. But again, like Fran and I, John and I had worked together for half a decade. >> But is that part of it is just so much at the end of the day depends on the quality of the relationship between a small number of people. >> I think it's that and but and it's it's a pattern of people showing up with the best interest of the company in mind, right? So it is it's a a trust of like you know you're demonstrating that you're optimizing for company outcomes and not your own. >> Do you think if you were in the the CEO's seat or you you have your own executive team multiple functions that it's easy to understand who's optimizing for what or it's tricky? >> I think it's relatively easy. I did this when so I I changed roles at Stripe. Um seven years in I moved to run all of our global product partnerships. So everything with like the banks um Visa, AMX, that type of stuff. And so I came in and that or had had a fair amount of leadership turnover over an 18-month period and was pretty clearly in need of some or changes. And to me that was a bit of a new function for me. like you know product partnerships is adjacent to go to market. There's a lot of functional acumen I can pull through but I didn't know anything about you know how you partner with a bank etc. There was a lot of I was learning where it wasn't like I could just go like take a sales order design and stick it in this context, right? So basically I went to that leadership team. Everybody agreed our current org design is suboptimal. So that was good. We like built we agree that something needs to change and I basically said I I would like to do this change with you all. And so to the extent that you all are demonstrating that you are keeping your stripe hat on, we will do this together. I want to be clear that I am the decider. And so the minute that I think people are putting their own, you know, person hats on, then I will make the decisions going forward and we will stop the collective decision-m here. To that group's credit, everybody did keep their stripe hat on and we made very tough calls. I think every single one of my direct reports had their remit changed by close to 50%. So like gave half their Legos to someone, kept the other half. All of them I think ultimately like the shape it landed in. Um, but it was one where like you can tell when people are doing first principled thinking using frameworks, sort of taking names off or charts and just sort of designing, you know, here's what's the best outcome and then sure we'll put the humans back into it versus when you have a lot of like, well, but I this I feel that like how would this person react? That type of stuff. Is there anything else you did to encourage people to behave that way or once you put a stake in the ground it sort of took care of itself? >> No, I mean there was a lot of one-on- ones that would happen throughout that so I could understand where each individual was nervous and then use that as ways to go back to frameworks that would help us make decisions. So, you know, we had to make a call on are we going to be partner aligned, functionally aligned, or regionally aligned. Those are all rational ways to set up an org. You could make arguments for all of them. So, we actually just decided we're going to go and make the case for every single one of those, right? And then we'll make the case why each of them doesn't work and then we'll work through it. But if you sort of started by again sort of just how would you first principles make an argument for any of these then that sort of got facts out on the table as much as possible and then you could sort of debate how to optimize sort of created a a solid foundation. It was a lot of workshops so it was a lot of getting people in the exact same room with a whiteboard and having the space to debate. I think often we'll do offsets and you try to make, you know, something that should take 3 hours fit in 1 hour on the agenda. So, we did a lot more of that cuz I think a lot of times if people can talk through things out loud, right, then that also makes you less nervous that you haven't been heard or we haven't worked through your concern. It would seem that a company utopia would be you have people that all they do is wear the company hat and they do great work and over time the people who are best situated to ultimately be c you know sea level of this or VP of that would be in those roles. My sense is across companies it never really works that way. No. And there there is this sense of you have to advocate for yourself. And then there's extremes where either self- advocacy gets in front of what's right for the business. So like the classic version of that is you get a marginal dollar and you just want to build your FFT would be one example. You know, you quickly get into well what is politics and politicking and at at scale companies you have the classic thing which is the people in a lot of the functions are just the best at politicking as opposed to running the function whatever. What's kind of your perspective on that? Like how do you tow the line between advocating for yourself and advocating for the company? Is there a tension in that? >> I mean, one of the things I'm a big believer in your work should speak for itself. I have definitely learned over the course of my career that there have been many times where not purposefully putting more visibility on my work meant that it was less well understood. So I I certainly had experiences where my peer set was acutely aware of the work I was doing and its impact and the layer above me was less so because I was not spending a bunch of time doing internal marketing of myself. I think you have to be probably aware of that at larger companies. For me personally, I just hate it. And so that often becomes to me a time when I debate whether or not I this sort of company has scaled beyond what I want it to be for me personally. I remember actually the moment at Google where I I I went to business school at Stanford GSB and they had a class there was called paths to power was basically a class on politics. did not take the class. And I reached a point in my Google career where I reached out to the professor and was like, "Can you send me the syllabus?" Because I realized I was being out politicked by people who were less effective than I was. And then I never read anything on the syllabus. I decided to leave. I had a little bit of that at Stripe, too, which you know, sort of I like being at companies when it's truly intellectually pure. That was actually one of the things that really got me to Verscell was the interview process that I had with the executives who were going to be my peer set was one of like the most transparent like showed there is actually a session with the head of people and the CFO that was like we are going to spend the next 45 minutes only talking about the warts on this company because like if you join you will be stuck with them too and like do we want that? And I just had like this sense for this was a group of people that were some of the most like fundamentally apolitical people I had met with had met which has been true since arriving at the company. One of my I do like a working with Gan doc um for my orgs and one of the things in like the about me session is like I just deep believe deeply in brutal intellectual honesty. And the definition of of that is basically your ability to detach your ego from an idea. So most folks have those very deeply intertwined. You have an idea. I think it's a bad idea. You feel that now you aren't smart. Um versus I'm very smart. I just had a bad idea. It's actually pretty rare for people to have like the level of self-confidence to be able to detach an ego from an idea. I like operating in those types of environments. So I tend to seek them out. Is there anything else you do in the part of the org that you own so that great work speaks for itself and as much as you can all the other shenanigans are sort of kept in a minimum? >> Yeah. I mean, I think you do this by how you highlight work, who you highlight. That's often I'm spending my time with the people that I, you know, know are doing really great work. >> How do you know they're doing great work? >> I normally end up being close to it and you can see it. I think it's often pretty clear to most people who are the individuals that are doing three to 5x the number of humans. For me, it often like coming into Verscell, you know, you're trying to figure out who are the set of people that are going to give me the most insights, help me ramp um figure things out. In a lot of cases, those people will seek you out too. And I think the way I'll experience the way they interact is also just like very selfless sharing of information, right? Like there's clearly no agenda. They are similarly just trying to have a sounding board with you. Hey, I witnessed this. I've got this insight. What do you think about this with nothing? What's in it for me? Versus others. Like, you can tell when people want to get on your calendar to give you some feedback, but they're mostly trying to position it as as look at look at me. Like, I think if you've been in leadership for a while, you sniff that out pretty readily. >> Isn't the opposite of the point true at various points in your career? Like, you made the statement that like if you're doing 3 to 5x the work of the average person, it's it's clear. >> Yeah. >> But in many points in your career, if you look at a level up from you or two levels up, they weren't aware. It seems that that was you at that point in time. And so what's going on? Is it just people intentionally sort of trying to make that obscure or is there something else that in it's actually harder to be aware of all of that as an or begins to scale? >> I think it was people were always aware that I was a high high performer. I think there had been other individuals who were very effective at putting bows on things that maybe other people knew had warts under the surface. And then one of the potential downsides of being somebody who's like pretty brutally intellectually honest is you actually expose all the things you know to not be working. if I'm meeting if I'm in a you know forecast call um you know back back in stripe days and we're struggling on a certain thing I will like talk about all the ways in which this thing is not working here are the things I'm trying to do to fix it I know the peer next to me has the exact same problem and sometimes that person instead might be like oh yeah we got this like we're on top of we'll fix it like there's there's sort of like that version of the world of like I'm not going to uncover reality to you I'm going to mostly hope you look over there while ideally I figure it out versus I want you to be acutely aware of the things that I'm working on so you're not blindsided from by it but like you are then going to know that like this isn't all perfect on route to getting to hopefully what is the right outcome you know probably there were points where I should have just put a bill on it >> you mentioned at various points at stripe there was kind of a formal or informal exec team that was call it 30 people that seemed very bad why did that work or what was the good parts of that or how did at end up being for some period of time. >> So, Stripe had LT, which was basically like John and Patrick's directs. It had OG, which was basically more or less the directs of those directs. And then it had GPTL, which was go to market whatever it was go to market product. I always like invert some of the letters too. And so it was basically born out of as stripe had gone through hypers scale we had lost some of the connectivity between GPM GTM and EPD and so mostly it was actually to bring those groups together squash them together and be like we will be one team because right now we are operating as two functions and then you also you know had finance and some other folks in there that would make everything work together more effectively. So it was more like these were the core operating groups of the company and that we we needed to get to that sort of overcome the five dysfunctions of a team to be like this this is your team not the go to market or not the EPD or >> and so how was the time spent like how how do you have that number of people in >> yeah I mean >> do anything productive >> I think anybody who is in those forums will tell you there are things that worked and things that didn't um so things that worked was at least everybody did have shared context you were in the room um things that didn't work was with 30 people in a room, probably 10 if that are going to take up the majority of the air time. And the 10 who did weren't always the 10 who likely should have. I think there are times where like you weren't getting to the right answer efficiently or the people who really should have been weighing in were were being silent just because of you know how they wanted to participate. So that that was a a bit of a challenge. It was a lot of time. I mean, hours and upon hours every week together. So, it was a real commitment. Um, I do think we did really turn a corner um as far as operating as as the same team. Yeah. And I don't know that we would have gotten there without that level of forcing function. So, it's an expensive investment, but I I would argue it paid off in the end. >> So, how do you spend your time in a given week? And maybe if you think back at over the last few months, what are you sure is the correct attention you're spending in a given week? And are there areas where like like gh I I really feel like it should be optimal for me to do X or Y, but I haven't sort of done that yet? >> I don't necessarily have like a framework per se of like I'm going to spend 10% time of this, 30% of time on this, um, etc. This is not a weekby- week thing, but I I tend to have one to two quarter periods that are more internally focused versus externally focused. So often I'll realize there are a set of things that are not functioning about an org and then we'll have a period where I'm going really deep on our core operations. Do we have the right org design? Do we have the right ways to look at the business? Do we have the right set of initiatives? And then you sort of get that foundation set and then now you can be much more externally facing. I'm doing a lot more sales calls, you know, getting back uh squarely in the market. I find it's hard to do both of them equally at the same time. That's sort of one way for me that that things tend to eb and flow. I find one of the things that I have to keep myself honest about is carving out time for deep thought and more of long-term thinking. It's extremely easy for that to get scheduled over. Plane flights are my favorite these days, >> but now with Starlink, it's going to be less effective to >> disconnect. >> Yeah, there you go. Anyway, I mean, that that's sort of the number one thing I have to check myself on is, you know, my job is not to be triaging every day. It is very easy to triage every day. It tends to be that when I do things that have the most impact on the or it has been because I have taken time out to go have deep thought. Also, there are certain themes in a quarter where I'm like particularly yeah trying to move the needle on in that more hands-on way. So, a great example of this right now is, you know, as Verscell becomes more of this platform, we need to be better at uh selling to executives. And that's a hard muscle to build if you've been selling to developers. Um, and so I am spending a lot of my time right now personally doing that. So we need our SDR team out prospecting to executives and getting comfortable with that. So GMO and I currently have a contest on who's going to be the top SDR at the company. Um, so you know, he's beating me actually on like the founder outreach to startups. I'm I'm probably waiting in enterprise CXO outreach, but you know, I I'm personally doing that and taking a lot of the first calls so that I can figure out exactly what should we say and then people can listen to my gong calls and hear, okay, what did you do? How would I emulate that? So, you know, that's a top of- mind thing where I'm super in the weeds right now as we sort that out and build the muscle. when you build a new capability even as like if you go back to Stripe and you're operating at mega scale right order of magnitude maybe more than where you are today do you still believe that the exec should basically be inventing on their own or just doing the thing first >> I do think so like if we like at Stripe you know we would update our core narrative um and I would be super in the weeds with typically some of our best sales leaders best AES product marketing that was figuring it out, coming up with that deck. I'd be dry running it. I'd be the person that you would record the video for folks to listen to. I'd be the one delivering it. I think that's important in having connectivity to your org and to the market. More recent example that was at Stripe was, you know, we were trying to drive a pretty different partnership motion with some of our payment method providers. So that was another one where I was like super at one point I think I like mocked up how you would change the UI. um which like I'm not a product manager but you know I saw like this great commercial opportunity from a partnership perspective was trying to go pitch product that we should invest in this and went out and did that got the buy in as a result of that and then we drove like an 18monthl long massive you know initiative across changing product you know huge partnership motions uh etc. the topic of exacts. One of the things that comes up all the time is the person was great at Xcale but they couldn't scale. So they got us to 100 million and then they couldn't scale. When someone says that in your experience, what do they normally mean? Like where do people struggle to uplevel or grow? >> I think it's in two ways. So either one is they fail to scale their people leadership. So going from front line management to second line to third line because each of those does require a different way of operating. So that's one area. And then the other is actually typically the business changed and you didn't adapt your skill set to that. So a great example of this it would be like companies that are scaling revenue. Typically you start in one segment and you wind up needing to be in another. So a lot of them will start with a PLG heavy inside sales type motion and then that sales leader as an example cannot scale when you start doing big enterprise deals. I think that's where people get more stuck is I couldn't acquire the like incremental functional acument or hire under me such that somebody brings that in and shores up that weakness for me. Um, and as a result, you become a rate limiter on the org's ability to perform. If someone's effective at 25 million in ARR as some simple proxy metric and their goal is not to be layered or managed out and they want to get into hundreds of millions. Again, in this fictitious example, are there things they should be doing or ways they should be spending time or investments they should be making in some marginal unit of time that will increase the chance that they can be in the seat for longer? >> Look, you can say go read a lot of books, go try to learn things. I actually think the best piece of advice I ever got that stuck to me is that you need to work yourself out of a job which is as you're scaling like you're comfortable doing the job you have become good at but if you keep doing that job that is no longer the job at 100 million versus 25 million and so I think that the minute you feel you have like deeply mastered something is probably the point at which you should be figuring out how somebody else does that. So, either you're teaching it to somebody below you who is going to be able to move in and take that off your plate or you're starting to think about how do I hire for that so I now have the bandwidth to go learn the next thing. >> So, a way to think about that is you're the CRO, the dominant motion is PLG. That's kind of your jam. You came up through that. you want to get out of the PLG business in short order and start working on the other part of the business. Is that sort of what you mean? >> Yeah, because you should if you've got expertise there, sort of like we were talking about earlier, you ought to be able to now know where to poke pretty easily. You did that job. So, if somebody else is doing it for you, um you're going to have more comfort and in handing that off and then being able to to monitor and then you can go invest in the new place. And then I think you just have to have self-awareness of when you are climbing that learning curve effectively yourself versus when you need to bring in additional expertise. I'll get I mean I'll give you an example at at Stripe. My sales career path started in PLG also the first sales or I ever um for sales team I ever ran was sold into the less than 50 employee segment. So that's like real small. And you know over the course of subsequent roles I kept having an opportunity to move up market and stripe you know started to move more squarely into enterprise and there are a bunch of ways in which you know I had been effective at picking that up had done been involved in a lot of our early deals made the case for getting into enterprise to the board but like enterprise sales leadership is a skill that's learned over decades period and you know when we got serious about we are now going to go from we had the enterprise tiger team so our sort of seven first figure it out reps to actually no we're now investing in enterprise and we're going to have multiple managers here was when I went out and said okay it's time for me to bring in an enterprise leader who is somebody that I will learn from while we continue to scale this organization >> when you zoom all the way out and you think about ending up sort of in this COO role if you remove anything related to the genetic lottery and you remove anything related to good luck and you try to figure out like what were the controllable inputs for you and your career. What do you distill it down to? >> I very purposefully followed highquality leaders. So Claire Johnson, a lot of people know I worked for her three times. Another gentleman, Rich Ralph, I worked for him twice. I went uh I worked for him before business school. I came back from business school explicitly to work for him because I felt he was somebody I could learn from. In both of the those cases, those were individuals who I not only felt I could really learn from and who were invested in teaching me, but they were also clearly people who were driving exponential growth for their own careers that then if I'm adding value to them, they're pulling me along with them. So I think I was very thoughtful about who I worked for. I was somebody who always did value depth and I think people are willing to take risks on you when you are definitely good at certain things, right? So they're like, "This job description has five major things. You clearly are quite good at three, so I feel confident you'll go figure the other two out." That that was frequently the story of my career. I did a stint in Apac at Google. I did knew nothing about the region. I was going to manage both SMB and mid-market. I did not know midmarket, but I had done a lot in the year prior to sort of be like again you check half of the boxes on that resume. Same thing happened at Stripe when I moved into partnerships. actually remember having a conversation that job at the time I accepted it rolled into the CFO and I remember having a conversation with her that was explicitly you know I've looked at the job description for this I check half of the boxes and I don't on the other half but I think given my Stripe experience hopefully you can believe I'll get there I do think the third we've talked about it a lot is just being somebody who's known for trying to make an organization better um and so a lot of people root for me because I've typically helped them be better at their job Is there a formal or informal performance review that you've had in your career that was the most valuable? >> I have had quite a few that have stuck with me. I don't know that this is the most valuable per se, but it's definitely the one where I left the review and I certainly will never forget it. So, I I reported to John Collison for an interim period. I had did one performance review with him and one of the things he said to me was sort of going back to the conversations we had on being demanding and supportive. He said within your or own organization you do a great job of being both demanding and supportive crossf functionally when you don't think somebody's good at their job they're dead to you. Um, and like that phrase, you can't unhear that. Like that's not very flattering. Which of course I went home and I was like, what what is he talking about? And then I slept on it and I was like, I actually think he's fair. That's a completely fair comment. And then I saw myself doing that very frequently of completely writing somebody off when I did not think they were effective at their job in a function that I was not running. And I don't know that I have like fixed that, but I am now far more self-aware. >> I still I still write them off, but I I know that I'm doing it. >> I really try. I actually think being in this role of of like a COO um because I've got this many more functions is like you just develop a lot more empathy of like a lot of times when you think someone's not doing well, it's it's because you don't have visibility into how their functional sausage is made, right? and the fact that it's actually hard to produce the output that like from you on the outside in maybe looks a little bit more straightforward. So I do find like over the course of my career I've developed meaningfully more empathy um through various points of either failure or relatively harsh feedback. What about sort of on this theme of things you've had to figure out or actual skill development versus sort of innate parts of you when you think about becoming a seale executive? Are there if you sorted everything you had to figure out over multiple decades? Are there a few things that are both the most important and the hardest from an actual I needed to develop a competency in this standpoint? >> I chose to go to business school because I thought I did not have enough hard skills. Um like I was a French major and I went to Google and the role that I was in in support at Google was great at teaching you how to get things done and like cross fun influencing without authority was something I really learned but I was not fasile with a spreadsheet. Um and so I went to business school specifically because I did not feel like I could understand a P P&L effectively could use data effectively. So like that was sort of my crash course and and hard skills. Other ones have been more around like leadership development. Google really had pretty exceptional leadership development training during the years that I was there which thanks to Cheryl Samberg. There are a lot of those that were hard. I remember one like Cla Claire made me cry at in front of like 15 people which is another was you know another one that leadership development how you influence how you show up etc. But there were there were a lot of those that I think shaped me a fair amount as a leader and how you scale and get people on board. >> Maybe just to wrap up on on sort of a similar vein, who's the person that's influenced you most in the role of an exec and what's like the most tangible thing they imparted on you? >> I'll answer this two ways. I I do think Claire had the most influence on me and how I show up as like a people leader. I was always really impressed by how she got crossunctional groups of people together and aligned around a common goal. She ste like stepped out of her swim lane so beautifully and was somebody who always I think was trying to facilitate honest dialogue to get good answers. So I definitely credit her with a lot of things I looked up to from like a a how perspective. I think from like a content perspective because I do pride myself on being a leader who isn't just a general athlete. Like I'm not in an executive role because I have leadership skills. I'm also in executive role cuz I really do have functional depth. And that actually I think was more self-initiated. And it was basically my experience going out to Apac and being like I now manage a bunch of sellers who have sold for a decade and I've never carried a bag and they have skills I don't have and I had better go learn them real quick so I can be credible. And that was sort of the moment where I was like, okay, sales is a functional skill and depth at that is differentiating as well. >> Good place to end. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. That was great.

---

# https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RmnWHz8HD74

I've been getting so many asks for go to market help. >> With AI, it's just intensified because [music] you have 10 players pursuing the same market opportunity and so your ability to actually bring the product to market to differentiate yourself from the competition has become more strategically important than it was previously. >> I had Jenna Ael on the podcast recently. One of her tips is you don't want to be focusing on here's the pain and problem we're solving and instead focus on here's how you will be better than your competitors. 80% of customers buy to avoid pain or reduce risk [music] as opposed to increase upside, which is a good thing for startup founders to understand. We all love to talk about the art of the possible, everything we're going to enable in the future, but that's often really a sale that's going to resonate with another founder. Everybody else, particularly enterprises, you're avoiding the risk of not making your revenue target next quarter. >> I've heard a lot about how you think about go to market as a product. We buy a lot of things because of how we feel about them. The experience that you have of being [music] sold to will increasingly actually differentiate a company and [music] drive buying decisions if products are only different at the merger. [music] And so then you really want to create a customer buying journey that feels like very unique experiences. [music] >> Something I've heard from so many people you've worked with is that your superpower is building a sales or that doesn't feel like a sales or to engineers. The litmus test I have always given my sales team is if you are an account executive in my org and I put you in front [music] of 10 engineers at our company, it should take them 10 minutes to figure out you aren't a product manager. Today my guest is Gan Grosser. Gan was chief product officer at Stripe where she built their very early sales team from the ground up. She's currently COO at Versell where she oversees marketing, sales, customer success, revenue ops, and field engineering. Gene has built world-class go to market teams at multiple unicorns and has advised dozens of companies on doing the same. In our conversation, we go deep on what a world-class go to market team looks like, including what the heck is go to market, the rise of the goto market engineer and how this role is already enabling her team to operate 10 [music] times faster, a bunch of very specific tactics to level up your go to market skills, [music] a primer on segmentation, how to think about your goto market process like a product, her favorite go to market tools, her hot takes on PLG and sales comp and sales hiring, [music] and so much more. If you are looking to get smart on the latest and greatest in go to market thinking, this episode is for you. A huge thank you to Claire Hughes Johnson, Kate Jensen, and James Deiet for suggesting topics for this conversation and Kelly Schaefer for the connection. If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe and follow it in your favorite podcasting app or YouTube. It helps tremendously. And if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter, you get an entire year free of a ton of incredible products including Devon, Lovable, Repid, Bolt, NAD, Linear, Superhum, Dcript, Whisper Flow, Gamma, Perplexity, Warp, Granola, Magic Patterns, Raycast, Shapeyard D, Mob, and Hand, Stripe Atlas. Head on over to lennisnewsletter.com and click product pass. With that, I bring you Jean Grosser after a short word from our sponsors. This episode is brought to you by Data Dog, now home to EPO, the leading experimentation and feature flagging platform. Product managers at the world's best companies use Data Dog, the same platform their engineers rely on every day to connect product insights to product issues like bugs, UX friction, and business impact. It starts with product analytics, where PMs can watch replays, review funnels, dive into retention, and explore their growth metrics. Where other tools stop, Data Dog goes even further. It helps you actually diagnose the impact of funnel drop offs and bugs and UX [music] friction. Once you know where to focus, experiments prove what works. I saw this firsthand when I was at Airbnb, where our experimentation platform was critical for analyzing what worked and where things went wrong. And the same team that built experimentation at Airbnb built EPO. Beta do then lets you go beyond the numbers with session replay. Watch exactly how users interact with heat maps and scroll maps to truly understand their behavior. And all of this is powered by feature [music] flags that are tied to real time data so that you can roll out safely, target precisely, and learn continuously. Data Dog is more than engineering metrics. It's where great product teams learn faster, fix smarter, and ship with confidence. Request a demo at data hq.com/lenny. That's data dogq.com/lenny. This episode is brought to you by Lovable. Not only are they the fastest growing company in history, I use it regularly and I could not recommend it more highly. If you've ever had an idea for an app, but didn't know where to start, Lovable is for you. Lovable lets you build working apps and websites by simply chatting with AI. Then you can customize it, add automations, and deploy it to a live domain. It's perfect for marketers spinning up tools, product managers prototyping new ideas, and founders launching their next business. Unlike no code tools, Lovable isn't about static pages. It builds full apps with real functionality, and it's fast. What used to take weeks, months, or years, you can now do over a weekend. So, if you've been sitting on an idea, now is the time to bring it to life. Get started for free at lovable.dev. That's lovable.dev. >> Jean, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the podcast. >> Thanks for having me, Lenny. What I want to get out of this conversation by the end of this to basically have this conversation be the thing that we send people when they're like I want to get better at go to market. I'm trying to figure out what to do in market. We send them this versus having to hire someone for a lot of money and and usually they can't find amazing people because they're all snatched up. >> Yeah. >> So let me start with just the basics. When people hear the term go to market, what does that mean? What does that encompass? >> I think there are two answers to this. Often what people think of is sort of the t tip of the spear of what drives revenue, which is marketing and sales. For me, I think of it as any function that is going to touch a customer or make a dollar. Um, and actually my remmit at Verscell is that. So that includes marketing, sales, uh, all of your technical sales roles like sales engineers or, uh, post sales platform architects is what we call them at Verscell. It's customer success, it's support, it's partnerships. And the reason I say that is uh my experience throughout my career has been that those functions often have this vend diagram strategy where marketing is pursuing one thing. It overlaps with what sales is pursuing but not perfectly, which also overlaps with what support is pursuing but not perfectly. Examples of this would be slightly different uh uh slightly differing segmentation frameworks etc. And so one of the things I think you're going to want to see more in this particular moment is that that become a really integrated life cycle in particular because I think we're going to see a lot of the functions of go to market get redefined. So we've gone through a period of like hyper specialization in go to market. Uh you know depending on how you count them there are you know I think somebody quoted like 17 different uh roles within go to market these days. And I hypothesize that a lot of those are going to start to collapse. And so if you think of go to market more holistically, I think you can kind of go back to what are the jobs to be done from making a customer prospect aware of of your product all the way through to you know high LTV five years on the platform fully wallto-wall and you're going to want to map that out and orchestrate it the way you would think about that within your own product. >> Awesome. We're going to go through that whole cycle of go to market, but so is it safe to say just for most companies that may that are especially starting out when they say go to market that mostly is sales and then there's marketing as a maybe a smaller fraction of that and then as you become more advanced and grow customer success plays into a tech sales things like that. Yeah, that's probably where most start um you know is getting sales or frankly just because a lot of companies also start PLG you might actually start with marketing and then you're layering in sales when it's time to do the sales assisted and ultimately salesled portions. So I think it can depending on your product and your initial target market it can either mean marketing or sales or a combination of those two. >> Awesome. So essentially it's like how the term go to market tells you what we're talking about. It's how do you take your product to market, get people aware of it, using it, sticking with it? >> Yep, absolutely. >> What is most changed in the world of go to market over the last few years? You've done this for a long time at Google at Stripe. You built the first sales team. Now you're doing that over cell. What's changed most in the skill and art of go to market? >> There are a number of things. So when consumption-based business models started, I think you saw go to market shift into being meaningfully more consultative because often that first land was the very beginning of the journey and represented a very small percent of what you were ultimately going to do with that customer. And so you had to go from being transactional to a lot more relationship based. You had to more deeply understand what that customer was trying to do so you could align that ultimately to your product. I think that has uh played out that much more with an AI because right now everyone knows they need to change but they don't necessarily know exactly what they need to change to whether that's their customerfacing product or their internal productivity and workflows. And so I think you're seeing a lot more of go to market orgs leaning into the art of the possible best practices helping you actually think things through as if they were a consultant. And so one of the things you see uh you know more of right now is for deployed engineering which on some level is kind of a rebrand of professional services um but kind of not and a big part of that is hey how do I actually get into your environment ride alongside you better understand what you're trying to do and then help you actually bring the technology to life and and learn a lot along the way. Um, often you're not only making that customer successful, but you're then taking all of that back to your product and engineering uh, organization to figure out, okay, what was generalizable that we ought to build into our offering versus what is something that ultimately is going to be more of a a professional service in the fullness of time. So, I think that has been a a a biggie is is actually just like really getting embedded with your customer. And then unsurprisingly, um, I think bringing AI to bear on the sales process is another big one. And so you've seen the rise in probably the last like 18 to 24 months um of the go to market engineer um which uh you know different different folks define slightly differently but it it's kind of bringing one technical prowess to bear on go to market in general so you can have a lot better tooling data use etc and then two increasingly bringing AI um to bear as well to rearchitect um your workflows um and also So uh make it so it's easier to have a personalized experience with customers but do so at scale. >> Amazing. Okay, let's follow the thread on this uh go to market engineer. >> Yeah. >> So what was it like before and what are what are these engineers doing at companies? >> So I think uh maybe like an interesting story to tell. Uh when I when I was at Stripe uh we went to launch an outbound um SDR function. uh so outbound prospecting and Stripe always ran lean. Uh the company at that time had an operating principle which was efficiency is leverage and so if you looked at the sales organization I was running most companies out there probably would have had 30 SDRs and I was going to get four. So you know there's no way I was going to do the typical SDR um you know approach and be successful. And so we thought to ourselves okay what can we do? We'll be super data driven. And so we went and we started building project Rosland. Rosland is the scientist who originally mapped uh DNA. And what this was was effectively a company universe. So you can think of this as like a massive database. Every row uh was a different company on the planet. And every column was an attribute about that company that would help you sell to them uh in a more targeted fashion. So at Stripe, an example would be like knowing that their um their business model was a marketplace was super helpful because that would mean you wanted to sell Stripe Connect versus Vanilla Payments. And so the goal was basically, hey, can we create a Mad Libs, you know, where I will come up with uh sort of a a predefined email template, but 80% of it will be fill-in- thelank based on the different attributes um of that that customer, right? So if they're this industry or this business model, then pull this customer reference, this value prop, you know, send it to this um uh persona, not that. And we were trying to do this in 2017. And uh it was very hard and didn't actually totally work. [laughter] Um our ability to like the false positive rate when and we worked deeply with data science like just it just never really got there. And now that we're literally redoing here at Verscell as we speak and it actually works. Um, and that's because you can bring AI to bear on it. Um, and so what's different is we now I have a data scientist just like I did back in 2017, but I have a go to market engineer. Um, whereas before I just had someone in systems that was helping me configure Outreach or Salesoft and my go to market engineer is helping me build an agent. um where we're coming up with okay well what's the human workflow that you would have done and then how do you encode that um using burcell workflows as an example you know in actual code that's both deterministic and and less so um where an agent's going out and and trying to replicate what a human might have done um to produce that fill-in- thelank mad lips >> I love the ambition of that project what is this like eight years ago >> yes it's such a I love the big thinking there we're going to map the entire universe of companies and then here's how we sell to them and then just I'm trying to picture doing that without AI. It's like crazy to imagine trying that without AI and now it's like so much simpler. >> Well, the thing that's amazing about that just to geek out on it a second. So um I I was working on that with a bunch of folks at Stripe um on my team obviously and a gentleman named Ben Salman um who went on to go to Zoom Info and then actually recently just founded a goto market startup that is basically sort of productizing that concept of a company universe and then layering AI on it on top of it and ultimately his view is actually you'll AI will get to the point that you won't have to do outbound prospecting because it will just sort of company and product match Um, so it's it's fun to sort of see back in 2017 some of the folks doing that now work at OpenAI, they work at Anthropic, they also are doing GTM. You've got him starting, you know, a totally AI native GTM um company. And then, you know, here I am at Rousell trying to do the same. >> Okay. So, what's cool is this is an emerging role and emerging skill that I don't think a lot of people have recognized as something that is happening. >> Yep. So, one example I'm hearing of what this role does is they automate outbound emails essentially and outbound outreach. They figure out they write workflows and agents that figure out here's the company to go after. Here's how we message them. Does that end up being kind of like an email that's customdesigned and written for this prospect? >> That's one version. So, so it's it's broader than that really. Um, basically the the full remit of GTMEN will be to go through each of the different functions within go to market and break down all the different workflows that they do and then turn those into agents um where you know AI is better placed than the human um to do that task. So right now we started with uh actually inbound and are now moving to outbound because um that workflow is most legible and by legible I mean you can basically write it down. It's relatively replicable, mostly deterministic, so it's more likely that AI will do it well. And we actually built the agent and then we keep a human in the loop. But from there, we're starting to look at outbound. And with an outbound, we're starting more at the lower end of the market where you tend to, you know, have slightly less customization because there's a single decision maker at the company. But I think it will take a while before we're able to really do that in a very large enterprise there. or we might use an agent for research but maybe not all the way to actually send a message and that's just within the prospecting function. So other places that we're looking at this would be um for install based sales. So again there it's a little bit more deterministic because you've got awesome internal data on what a customer is and isn't using. What's the next best action? What's the thing they should get most value from? So that's where we're starting to map, hey, what does that ideal workflow look like? But basically, you want to get to a state where as long as I've been in sales, they, you know, release these annual reports that help us all benchmark ourselves relative to one another. And one of the stats is what percent of time do your sellers actually spend in front of customers? And you know, for the 20 years I've been in sales, it's always been somewhere around 30 to 40%. So the minority of time is actually talking to other humans. And I think we're getting to a point where with layering in agents, ideally we finally get salespeople to a point where they're actually spending 70% of their time interacting with humans and we can get the research, the followup, the things that are a little bit more, you know, wrote and don't use the entirety of your human capacity uh done by an agent and then sort of unleash you to uh go deeper with your customers. I love that this is such a great example of where AI is contributing in a very meaningful high ROI way taking on all this work that people that you had to hire say 50 SDRs as you described to do and now you could do with a lot more. So it's a really cool example of leverage that AI uh gives you. One thing that I know a lot of people think about when they hear this is okay I'm going to get more of these really bad emails trying to pitch me on stuff and just like this isn't going to work. I can tell this is AI. What have you learned about how to do this where people actually receive emails that actually convert and do well? >> Our processes all always have human in the loop and uh so basically where we'll start is we take a go to market engineer and we have them shadow the highest performing individual in that function. And so you can go and you shadow an SDR and you can see oh wow they've got seven tabs open. they're looking up the you know person on LinkedIn they're reading about the company they're doing chatbt on this they're you know looking in this database to get these sets of attributes um and so that's how you sort of inform the initial work uh workflow and then what we do is we let the agent make a call so and the specific example with um with inbound right you have to determine whether or not you think the lead is likely to be qualified and then you have to determine what to say to it and so we'll let the agent make those two calls It ultimately then does some deep research, pulls in a bunch of information from our databases and crafts a response. But we have a human review all of those and actually hit send. Now for us, we had 10 SDRs doing this inbound workflow and now we just have one that is effectively QAing the agent. The other nine we deployed on outbound. So we got to move them up the value chain. At some point I think we'll get to a place where we feel like hey you know the the human reviewer is um saying yes enough of the time that we feel confident that these will be onbrand targeted etc. But right now uh we're still trying to train um the agent and it you know it incorporates feedback on what we choose to reject edit etc. >> And you shared that it's already having a lot of impact like you said you had you said 10 SDRs and now one can do the job of 10. Yes. >> Wow. >> Um, yeah. And we, so before we did that move, I mean, the other thing that's just incredible about this is the person who built the lead agent was a single GTM engineer. He spent maybe 25 30% on his time of his time on this. Uh, it was 6 weeks before we felt confident going from 10 to one. So, it wasn't like this was a multi-quarter process. It actually moved super quickly. Um, so, uh, and then again now we just sort of keep that agent manager sort of working with the agent to get it to a point where we say, "Hey, we're ready to roll." Um, and actually throughout the process, we also tracked all of the KPIs that you typically would hold an SDR accountable to. So, we were looking at our lead to opportunity conversion rate. We're looking at the number of touches it takes, the time to convert. Uh, and basically what we were able to do is hold that lead to opportunity conversion rate flat. Um, so the agent is as good as our humans were, but it's actually condensed the number of touches it takes to convert because it's so much quicker at responding relative to leads inevitably sitting in the queue or coming in at night time and no one, you know, can get to it. That that type of deal. Um, so, uh, that's sort of, you know, when we knew it was, uh, ready to pull nine people off and shift them into outbound. That's incredible. Okay, that's interesting. So, you shifted them to outbound. What I love about this is this SDR that is now doing this is, as you said, doing the things they enjoy more. They're talking to customers more. They're not doing all this kind of top offunnel row work. >> Yeah. >> I don't want to get into whole like jobs AI discussion, but uh there's always been this talk about AI SDRs basically replacing SDRs. It feels like that's one thing where everyone's like this is 100% going to be AI in the future. Uh what I'm hearing here is it gives one a steer a lot more leverage and obviously you still need people running the show. T thoughts there just like do you think AI will replace all this at some point and then I don't know you don't need salespeople. >> I think on prospecting it can replace a fair amount because the average SDR wasn't doing overly sophisticated research in the first place. Um, so where I I think the last part to go as I mentioned will be in deep enterprise prospecting where you know you can be at multiple layers in an org chart. You've got to pick between business lines. You got to triangulate those. Um, but uh I I do think for the things that are more repetitive that often don't take that much time to learn and get ramped AI will be good at that. And in my view, no one like graduated from college and was like, "Yes, I just went to college for four years to become an SDR." It was more, okay, that's where you are forced to start. But I think the average STR could have gone straight into outbound or straight into an SMB closing role. Uh, and so basically what we're just doing is shifting folks into something that uses more of their full capacity right out of the gates rather than sort of the uh, you know, the the forcing function of working your way up the totem pole. >> Awesome. Since a lot of people listening to this aren't sales people, don't have a lot of background in sales, we've used this term SDR. There's also the term AE. Can you just help people understand what is an SDR? What do they do? What's an AE? And then what's kind of the role above? >> Sure. So SDR is typically in charge of generating pipeline. So they're meant to talk to prospective customers and uh get them to a point where it is worth investing time to run them through a sales process. So you t typically have two types of an STR. You have an inbound one. So, this is where people come to your website, they fill out contact sales, they'll be the first call uh to make sure that it's actually worth a more expensive account executive to go and run a sales process. Or you then have outbound. So, this is where when you want to grow faster than your inbound demand, they will go out and at this point you probably have a point of view on where you think you have product market fit. And so they will target that part of the market and try to drum up interest from folks who weren't otherwise raising their hand saying, "I'd like to talk to you." So that's sales development, basically pipeline generation. Account executives are closers. So it's their job to take somebody from, okay, hey, I'm interested in learning about your solution. I have a legitimate problem. I potentially could make a decision to I now believe that your product is the best in the market and for me and I'm willing to pay for it. And then account executives depending on uh the segments that your company sells into, eg small business, mid-market, enterprise, etc. They may work their way up the food chain from selling to a smaller company like an SMB or a startup. Those tend to be a little bit more of a transactional sale. You often have a single decision maker to then going into a mid-market or commercial role where now maybe you have an economic buyer like somebody in finance and a technical buyer like somebody in engineering to getting into enterprise where you know you now have procurement and you have committees and 10 people have to weigh in and um you know you've got to help them figure out how to derisk the fact that they're probably migrating from something. So much more complicated um coordination effort to sell. That was extremely helpful. So, SDR pipeline generation AE closer. Such a simple way of thinking about it. Okay, this is great. Uh, going back to the GDM engineer, a few questions for people that may want to try this at their company. What scale do you think it makes sense to start hiring for this role, having someone automate the go to market process? >> What's interesting about this is it will force companies to be more rigorous about their sales process early. So often startups when they go from founder sales to say I'm going to have my first salesperson whether that's an actual you know account executive who has prior sales experience or your general athlete wicked smart who's going to go figure it out you know often founders will just say okay sales is showing up and talking to people isn't you know isn't that what I just did for the last couple years but actually sales is is more than that it's a skill just like writing code as a skill or building a financial model as a skill. It's about discovery. So asking all the right questions that help you uh identify challenges and pain, willingness to pay, um you know, etc. Uh and then going through a process to handle those objections and showcase, you know, where you add enough value such that somebody ultimately wants to hand over some money. So often, you know, startups will get particularly ones with strong product market fit to pretty significant scale without really having a replicable process. And you can't really apply go to market engineering unless you actually have a point of view on what best practice should look like. And so I think basically this is going to force folks to have more of a playbook out of the gates. What's working? What's not? Can I document it? Do I have content for the different parts of the sales process? And then you know once you do that which you know maybe 10 people is a good size and scale for that ostensibly you know a GTM engineer can come in and turn that into an agent. You could also argue that if you know you're a founder who wants to bring in a general athlete profile and that person is technically minded that you could have a hybrid AE GTM engineer who figures out what their best practice is and then tries to turn that into an agent. you know, that's riding alongside them and making them more effective as well. So um you know I I don't know that I have a point of view yet on what's the optimal size and scale but I forever have given founders the advice that uh it's you often want to bring in revenue operations which is basically the analytical arm of sales earlier than you think because having data having process is actually what gives you insights as a founder into what is and isn't working and so I would argue just like it's a good idea to have that sooner later. Increasingly, it'll probably be a good idea to have GTM engine and be looking to bring agents to bear on your process uh at the outset. >> While we're on this topic, just a quick tangent. The advice for hiring your first salesperson that I usually hear is wait until you're around a million in ARR when you have a repeatable process you can teach someone. Anything there? Is that does that seem right? What would you what would you recommend? >> Yeah, I think that seems about right. Um I do think uh as a founder you want to stay deeply connected to customers and get it to a scale and get it to a point where you know you use the word there's some repeatability there. I think that's one of the things that not all founders get right is founders are incredible salespeople right they convinced a VC angel investors to fork over a bunch of money so clearly they're going to inspire people to buy. But if you're getting to a million in ARR and the set of customers you have look nothing like one another you still have very much like an evangelist sale very much founder sale versus if you can say hey I now have an ICP here or ideal customer profile eg something you can write down you know we are good uh our product fits with uh startups with less than 100 employees who are typically building SAS applications right something like that um then they're probably ready to hand over the reigns. Uh and then what founders have to remember is to actually hand over the reigns. So, you know, you got to enable the person who comes in what is it that you know you're doing effectively? What's your content? What are the discovery questions you're asking? How are you handling objections? Um so you can transition that knowledge, but also don't hand them over entirely, right? You want to stay connected to the customer because you still have a fair amount of R&D to do to figure out where are you, you know, where is the product next going to resonate, where are you getting, you know, stock as you scale, etc. >> To close the loop on the go to market engineer, what's the profile of the ideal go to market engineer, maybe your first >> what we have found works really well is somebody who uh does have go to market experience. So at Verscell, our first three go to market engineers were actually sales engineers. So Verscell hires very technical uh sales engineers. All of them were front-end developers before they decided they wanted to get into sales. And so we just said, "Hey, three of you, congrats. You're now founding members of our GTME team." Uh and the thing that works well there is uh you know, you do understand aspects of uh what is good GTM? uh what does a process look like? It's been really interesting actually. Um so the gentleman who runs GTM for me um we were going through you know this this lead agent and QAing it uh and you know so I'm going and I'm looking at some of the responses that we've ultimately uh had had the lead agent send and realized oh I wouldn't have sent that. Um, and that's because I have 20 years of sales experience and we model the lead agent off, you know, our best person, but our best person who has two years of sales experience. So, it actually is important to understand the art and the science of sales and how you bring best practice to bear. So, either you've done it and so you know some best practice or you're going to geek out on sales, read a bunch of books, learn a thing or two, um, you know, and and try to incorporate some of those into into your agent development. >> That is really interesting. So, come from the sales side, not from the engineering side. And I imagine this is such a cool opportunity for sales people to do something completely different and move closer to engineering. >> Yeah, I I mean, we're having a lot of fun with it at uh at Rurell in particular. We basically get to be customer zero. So everything that we're building with agents, we're building on Versell's AI cloud. So you know these agents are now have multiple steps that they go through. So we're using Verscell's uh workflow SDK and um workflow offering. We um you know use the AI gateway to call the different models that we use to do deep research um or uh other enrichment that we do. Uh, so for us it's it's great because we basically sort of bang on everything the engineering team is is building and get to go be a discerning customer before we actually get it out the door to real customers. >> What a fun time to be alive. I could tell the the fun that you guys are having just the way you describe it. Stripe handles the massive scale and complexity of many of the world's fastest growing enterprises including 78% of the Forbes AI50 and more than half of the Fortune 100. Enterprises like Atlassian, Figma, and Urban Outfitters use Stripe to create fully branded and customized checkout pages with access to more than 125 global payment methods. There's a reason I've had more leaders from Stripe on this podcast than any other company. They know how to build great products that scale and that people love. And Stripe is a lot more than payments. They've also got a category leading billing solution and a highly optimized checkout experience built specifically to increase your checkout conversion. Join the ranks of industry leaders like Salesforce, OpenAI, and Pepsi that are using Stripe to grow faster and to grow the world's GDP. Learn how Stripe can help your business grow at stripe.com. zooming out a little bit in terms of you mentioned tools, some tools that you use. I'm curious just what are kind of the state-of-the-art tools within the goto market stack that you love that you'd recommend? >> Well, so I'm going to have an interesting answer to this. Um, uh, so I'll give you one, and it's not state-of-the-art per se, although that I don't don't mean that, uh, disparagingly. It's just that it's been around for for a while now, and and a lot of folks use it. But I think Gong has gotten just meaningfully more interesting in the last year. Um, and then second half my question I will get into. I think the calculus on build verse buy is changing. So all right, Gong. Uh, Gong is incredible because you can run agents against it now. Um, so we take all of our gong transcripts and we dump them um into an agent called the dealbot. And that dealbot then can do a bunch of things. So the first thing we had it do was uh lost a lost opportunity review. So we had just finished Q2. we had, you know, a list of our top losses for the quarter sorted by deal size and we ran it against that and uh it was incredibly interesting. So the biggest loss that quarter uh according to the account executive was lost on price. And when you ran the agent over every Slack interaction, every email, every gong call, it said actually you lost because you never really got in touch with economic buyer. And when you talked to somebody about ROI and total cost of ownership, it was clear from their reaction that they didn't really buy your math. And so really the reason we lost was an inability to demonstrate value. Um which you know upon reflection I've got work to do to build out how we quantify the value of versell uh which actually is very easily quantifiable. It's one of the things I love about selling this product but we got to codify that for the go to market team. Um, so that was incredibly interesting and now we run it against all of our lost opportunities and actually do a much better job of categorizing why it was we really really lost and then either feeding that back into the engineering team or back into marketing sales leadership on hey where are we falling short in the sales process and so that was awesome but then we're like well it's not very fun to lose so why don't we pull that forward and so we went from lost bot to dealbot And now the dealbot is running in real time and we basically feed insights into Slack. Versel is incredibly heavy users of Slack. So we have a channel for every single customer either opportunity or existing one. And so now we're feeding insights into that Slack channel which is you know hey you're this far into the sales process and you haven't talked to an economic buyer. You should think about that. or hey, you just got off that call with an economic buyer. It didn't sound like it went that that that well. You know, here are some things to consider and how you might follow up. And uh last thing before I pause, the other thing that's really interesting and how we're we're using this too is, you know, we are in this moment, right? We're like I I have never seen an iteration velocity like exists now in my career. My 20 plus year career has all been in tech. Um, and so for go to market teams, that's really hard. If you are launching something every other day, the ability to be enabled on that is actually quite challenging. And so this uh bot agent um is now also letting us where we're starting to go with it is we'll release something. We'll do our best to enable the team. Then we'll go run the agent across uh calls, interactions, and we'll diagnose where we did a bad job of objection handling where we're getting stuck. And then at the end of the week, we can have a huddle and say, "Okay, what are all the places that our agent would suggest we aren't selling effectively?" And then almost like an engineering team, we'll now run sprints, which is like those are just bugs. They're bugs in your go to market process, so you should not have them. And you know, by the next week, we're going to add content to our objection handling to guide. We're going to add content to a discovery guide. We're going to figure out something we need to change about our demo. So on and so forth. So that's early. That's a little bit of a preview. Um but but that's where we're talking about taking things right now within our our go to market org. >> Jean, you're blowing my mind in so many ways. This just sounds so fun and just like you guys are going to win is what I'm feeling when I hear all this. Uh incredible. What I love about this is this AI tool, this agent you built sees things that humans were not seeing. The fact that you were surprised of just like this is a completely different conclusion is such a big deal. This is the whole promise of the eye. is going to do things we aren't even thinking about or capable of. It is I we had a really interesting one of the things we're doing um aber so you know we have an AI cloud so people use that to put AI native features into their customerf facing applications but they're also using it to build internal applications to improve productivity or outcomes and we are talking to a very large airline and that airline uh obviously gets tons and tons of support queries so uh of course they would want to go apply AI I to hey how can we have AI answer these so that our cost to support goes down sort of the obvious thing but the more interesting conversation was actually um with uh one of the sea level executives who said we also actually transcribe every single one of those support calls and so what I really want to know is why are they calling and how do I make it so that fewer people call the next week. Um, and so again, this is now with AI, you can rapidly go through all of that content and actually be able to much more quickly than having a human, you know, in your CRM sort of pick some status, why it was that folks were calling the airline this week and and what if anything you can do to make it less the case next week. >> I imagine many people hearing this are like, I need one of these deal bots and los bots. Uh, these are all internal products that you all built. >> Yes. Is there anything that you've learned about making them this good? Any tips you can share? Here's how to make a really good bot for sales. >> Yes. Um, so actually that's the second half of my answer that I forgot to uh forgot. That's perfect. >> Which is sort of like build versus buy calculus. >> Um, so I think one of our learnings is that it's not that hard to build these agents and they aren't that expensive either. So, you know, I mentioned with the lead agent, um that was a six- week process with one human, a third of his time. Uh that dealbot, the Lostbot version was like two days. Um like basically we rifted on it. He had it 40 hours later. Um you know, now we're continuing to refine it for for the other things I mentioned. Um and and what's also interesting about them is they uh it's you know for better for worse for Brcell but that uh that lead agent which runs full stack on Verscell will cost us about $1,000 to run for the entire year. So if you remember I told you we had 10 people in the SDR function. So I'm I'm paying well over a million dollars for that from a salary perspective. I got that down to one and then behind that I have a lead agent that costs a thousand bucks. Um so that's like a you know 90 plus% reduction in total cost there. Um so and you know there are a lot there's lots of software for for agents on on um out there right now. And I think one of the things we're learning is because this whole space is so nent, often your own esoteric context, you know, your content, your workflow is really key to unlocking the power of the agent. And so I think there's real value in experimenting with your own internal agent development. We may ultimately end up on, you know, better integrated agent platforms in the fullness of time. Um, or we may find that the CIO increasingly goes from a procurer of software to a builder of software and you'll have an AI AI internal platform with a thousand agents running across your org. I'm not really sure yet. Um, but I certainly think um there's value in trying it yourself because you may find that it's meaningfully easier than you think. Um, and you get returns pretty quickly. So what I'm hearing here is that you're finding that there are not tools out there to plug and play. The alpha is essentially in building your own stuff. >> I think that's partially true. And I think because you also have all these tools proliferating right now, you get into the perennial problem where you wind up with 20 of them uh to do you know the 20 jobs to be done basically rather than an integrated platform that's doing all of them. Uh I'm hearing this a lot actually when I'm talking to customers right now where their biggest issue uh in deploying AI is actually just getting through procurement and it's sort of because everyone's got an AI mandate. You kind of have a blank check. Uh I recently heard the term of instead of ARR it's ERR which is experimental run rate revenue which is to say you know everyone's out there sort of hey we're going to give this thing a go for a year and then TBD on whether or not you know we keep it but you know basically you're having to procure 20 different things because most things are getting off the ground and so you know they're solving something relatively narrow and that'll change in the fullness of time but I do think there's an opportunity to figure out hey where do I likely have a more specific workflow, you know, internally. For that, it might be will worth worth building your own agent and then maybe for the things that are a little bit more generalizable, you go get something off the shelf. >> Are there any platforms or tools you want to shout out that allow you to build these agents so quickly? I know they sit on Versel. So, shout out Versel, but just uh anything that you point people to to like are these SDR these GTM engineers, they're former salespeople. Are they learning to code? Are they bip coding these agents? How does that >> uh well the so our sales engineers all have uh CS degrees so they they were engineers um uh in a sales capacity so they're writing code and actually these agents they're building directly on Verscell um so you get the AI gateway that lets you you know call different models um you have a sandbox if you're running untrusted code you've got uh workflows that let you build the process you've got fluid compute which lets you um really efficiently use compute when you need it. Um so so we're just sort of building it from the ground up um here because again it's not that hard. Now you do need to write code for that. Um certainly there are a lot of vibe coding tools out there that also give you more um kind of workflow will build builders that are somewhere between fully wizzywig um almost like drag and drop um and a little bit more more code forward. Um, so you've got a bunch uh out there along those lines. But, uh, you know, I I do think we've sort of found like one of one of the reasons actually the GTME team at Verscell can build these agents so easily is because the Verscell platform is making it that easy to use our, you know, framework defined infrastructure and get that agent onto into production very rapidly. >> What a neat unfair advantage you all have to do this. >> Yes, it is. It is fun to like I mean I I do think this company is better than any I've seen at eating its own dog food. Um and just everyone is constantly we say Verscell builds Verscell with Verscell. So you're just always looking for ways to hey how can we use our product to go do what we need to do and as a result either understand then what a customer would want or what's missing from our product that we could go make better. Along these lines, something that's already come across a lot in the way that you describe this stuff is I've heard a lot about how you think about go to market as a product. A lot of people listening to this, as I've said, are product builders. So, I think this is a really uh nice way of thinking about go to market. Uh I'm guessing you've already talked about elements of this, but just what's a way to think about go to market as a product? >> Yeah, I've always um so I had this realization um probably a little over a decade ago in my career. Um, so my first job out of college was working on Gmail in 2004. So Gmail launched on April 1st. I joined on June 1st. And, uh, as I'm sure you'll remember as well, Gmail was this incredible innovation, uh, you know, massive JavaScript application that didn't really exist at the time. And it had this gig of storage. It was a full year before Yahoo Mail caught up and even longer before Hotmail and others did. Right? So that that was the level of like technical differentiation between you know Gmail and the next best. And a decade later I you know you had cloud uh computing enabling folks to do stuff that you never would have been able to do previously. And so I kind of felt like huh like software is starting to commoditize a little bit. Um and so uh you know when when that happens when technical differentiation kind of narrows what are other things that will differentiate you? Um and you know sort of thinking outside of tech like we buy a lot of things because of how we feel about them. Um and so I started to develop this thesis that um actually the experience that you have of being sold to will increasingly actually uh differentiate a company and uh drive buying decisions if uh products are are only different at the margin. Uh and so if if you believe that then you really want to create a customer buying journey that feels like very unique experiences. And so we did a lot of this at Stripe and now we're looking to replicate this here. But an example of one of the things I think we did really nicely at Stripe was, you know, a lot of companies sales sort of the first call after you're qualified, you know, we've decided you're wortha engaging in sales process is discovery, which is basically let me ask you a lot of questions to try to under uncover pain, figure out where buying power lies, etc. And so that is kind of boring sometimes for a customer. You're basically being quizzed um often on the phone. Uh and so what we started to do at Stripe was that first session was a whiteboarding session and we would actually get together and have you, you know, draw your architecture um for payments um and all the other things that were under the hood to enable you to take money and drive customer outcomes. And through that we would learn a ton about, you know, what was in your stack, what we were going to have to compete with, displace where value lied. But the customer also learned a lot themselves because in many cases they'd never drawn their architecture diagram. And so they left that meeting with an asset and a sense of like wow this is a really collaborative person who's like deeply interested and helping me like you know develop a mental model for how to think about this um you know and then we had other things that we we would do. Um so uh that's sort of how I think about building go to market like a product is basically you need to go through from the first time you become aware that the company exists to again that sort of five-year heavily retained wall-to-all customer a set of experiences and those experiences can feel transactional flat boring or they can feel very human personalized and unique. Um, and so, you know, we try to go map those out and figure out how do you, you know, bring the product to bear, make it really human. Um, and and hopefully that, uh, creates a customer for life in the end. >> I love that whiteboarding example. Are there any other examples of what you've done to make it actually work really well in this way? >> Yeah. Another principle, we really developed this um at Stripe 2 and I brought it to to Verscell was just the idea of adding value at any touch point regardless of whether or not that customer bought because even if customers don't buy, you often find that if you miss them on that buying cycle, three or four years later when they're in another buying cycle, they do come back. you know, I was at Stripe for nine years and so I saw the number of customers that we lost and then half a decade later here they are and they bought. So, um uh that that was sort of another one. So, you know, examples of this that we're doing at Verscell is um we uh you can there's great data on the internet um that helps people understand the performance of their website and how fast uh your website is um actually impacts SEO and SEO impacts AEO and everybody's thinking about AEO right now. Um, and so, you know, one of the things we try to do when we reach out is actually give folks insight immediately into how they're performing on an absolute basis, how they're performing relative to peers. So, ideally, you know, that piqus your interest and you want to learn more from us. Um, but even if it doesn't, you still have insights that you may or may not have been aware of um that maybe make you contemplate whether or not you've got the optimal setup. >> Awesome. So what I'm hearing here is uh when you say think of it like a product, it's basically a product person thinks about the experience of their product at every step of the journey. Here's the flow. Step 1 2 3 4 5. How do we make every step awesome? Keep them going along that journey. And so what you think about is just from the prospect's perspective, how do we make every step of that journey awesome? Continue them down that journey. >> Yeah. Yeah. How do you make it be an experience rather than a transaction >> versus just like feel like sales coming at you trying to sell you stuff? Yeah. >> Okay. Uh staying along this track of being staying tactical, uh I want to go even further there. So what are just some go to market tactics that you find really effective these days for people trying to just to be more successful in getting people to pay attention to their stuff to buy their stuff? Uh I mean one I would sort of say uh dubtales with where I just ended but is what are the unique insights that you can bring to bear um about your product or you know how that that customer may be in a suboptimal state. So I do think investing in in data to tease that out is is one thing. I think the other thing this is is straightforward but often um not done enough is like a lot of good companies invest in docs um you know good thing to do and but they they stop there and particularly if you're selling into a slightly larger company doing things like um you know AWS calls it well architected guides um or blueprints uh a lot of customers particularly larger ones really want to know the best practice for how exactly to implement your product in with their particular setup. Uh, a great example of this, um, this is from Stripe was, you know, Stripe was excellent at marketplaces. Most, you know, Lyft, Instacart, Door Dash, they were all on Stripe. Um, and so Stripe definitely knew the best way to set up payments for a marketplace. Because we'd seen them all. And so when you then would go and sell a marketplace and, you know, say, "Oh yeah, we've got docs. Go check them out." They didn't like that, right? Because they're like, "Hey, every marketplace runs on Stripe. I don't want to look at generic docs. I want you to tell me what's the best way to set up payments for a marketplace. Um, and so I think that's another key thing to be doing. Um, particularly as you move past that sort of solo developer, startup founder as potentially a target uh, audience. Um, and then I don't know this is a tactic per se. Um, but I do think just a good reminder for founders in particular who um are still in that maybe founder-ledd sales moment is just the value of really good discovery. Uh I often find founders are so in you know so excited about uh talking about their product or you know you ask one question and now they've got a hook of like I can fix that for you. But, uh, excellent salespeople typically, uh, will talk well under half the time in, uh, a conversation because they're out asking questions, probing, often helping a customer, uh, arrive at conclusions on their own. And so, learning how to, you know, do five W's, go deep, rather than immediately going into problemsolving mode. You know, if they ask a question, you respond. often if they ask a question, you should ask a question about the question and then respond, right? So learning to be great at that I I think differentiates people. >> So the last tip I think there something a lot of I bet everyone could learn is just listen more and talk less. >> Yeah. >> On that first piece of advice, this kind of sharing unique insights and how you're suboptimal. Is there an example you could share of how you did that? Maybe a story of just how you convince someone you're selling striper versus sell care. Something you you're missing. Here's how this could help you become much better. So with versell the um sort of is giving an example but I'll make it more specific. So um you know the performance point you can go and look at core web vitals um and so we can actually see the different things um within their site that are fast uh or you know load correctly etc. So at that we then so anyone can go look that up but what we can do is actually then help with benchmarking relative to peers. Um so that's been um a big one that we've gone out and done. The other one that we've spent some good time on is just around helping customers understand uh MCP servers and when it would make sense to use one. Um, so I think you know those are all the rage but often people don't know how to contemplate them within their own product. So that was uh another one that that we've gone pretty deep on and then related to the first one is um AEO answer engine optimization uh is actually you know somewhat tangential to Versell right so we drive performance performance drives SEO SEO is an input into AEO uh but we have spent a ton of time um sharing insights on AEO because we ourselves focus deeply on it and think we understand it better than many and so again as part of just building a trusted relationship ship. You know, folks may go from those AMAs or that content um into okay, great. You learn, you taught me a lot and therefore I want Versel to help me with performance. Um but in many cases, they actually now are just like this is a company that seems insightful. It seems like one I can learn from and now I'm going to pay a little bit more attention to them and over the fullness of time maybe, you know, they see something that triggers them to decide now's the time I want to go investigate that aspect of Versell. >> Awesome. So, what I'm hearing here in many ways, and this resonates, I had Jenna Ael on the podcast recently, and it was all about sales skills and how to sell. Nice. >> And one of her tips is you don't want to be focusing on here's the pain and problem we're solving. And instead, focus on here's how you will be better than your competitors. Here's a big gap and alpha that you can achieve if you use say Versel. So, here's like you you're missing out on speed and you're going to get screwed in AO and all these things. here's like how you can architect your entire payments art system to be top tier. Does that resonate? >> Yeah, it uh there's I I was told this stat. It's round numbers so I can't imagine it's entirely accurate but um you know basically that um customers 80% of customers buy to avoid pain or reduce risk as opposed to the other one out of five to increase upside which is a good thing again for startup founders to understand. So you know we all love to talk about the art of the possible you know uh everything we're going to enable in the future. It's very exciting. Everyone's visionaries, right? But, um, that's often really a sale that's going to resonate with another founder. Um, and for everybody else, uh, you know, it particularly enterprises, you're avoiding the risk of not making your revenue target next quarter, uh, the risk of having comp, you know, being outdone by the competition, the risk of having brand damage, etc. And so it's really hard actually for uh many startups to make that pivot because it it feels off-brand. But it does actually drive more buying behavior is setting up a little bit of that concern that either I might not be well positioned or again through good question asking I know exactly where I'm not well positioned and you can help me derisk that. >> That is such an important stat you shared. This has come up actually before in this podcast that buying people are buying in large part to reduce risk to basically not hurt themselves in their career not hurt the company like that's a bigger factor in the buying decision then I have this problem I need to solve and okay thank you this solving and the way April Dunford came on the podcast and talked about this of just like like it's such a massive career bet we are going to bring in product X and it's going to become like Stripe let's say let's not talk about her cell but let's say Stripe we're going to adopt Stripe Right. That's like a huge decision. If it doesn't go well, your career is hurt. Your manager is going to be mad at you. It's going to set your company back. Yeah. >> So, a lot of the buying decision, as you've said, is I just don't want to screw this up. >> Right. Absolutely. >> Okay. Along the line of tactics, something that I know you're a big fan of and uh help people think about is segmentation. >> Yes. >> This is something a lot of founders struggle with. They know, okay, I need to figure out my segmentation strategy and here we're going after. Can you just kind of give us a primer on segmentation? what people should know about why this is important and how they might approach this. >> Yeah. So, segmentation is basically how do you carve up the world of companies that exist on the planet uh to reason about them where they buy differently. So, I'll give um I'll give examples from from Stripe and Burcell to bring this home. So, a very very typical company segmentation is small, medium, large. That's a rational way to do things. Uh small, you often have a single decision maker. Medium, you know, a small team and large, it's complex, it's a committee, etc. Um so the buying process does change across SMB, mid-market, enterprise. Um but if you stop there, uh you are likely missing. Okay. But what are the things within your offering that also change the way something gets sold? So at Stripe um there there were two ways we further cut the business. Way one was so think of segmentation as as a graph. So x-axis was size um so small, medium, large. Yaxis was growth potential and that was important for Stripe because it was a consumptionbased business. So if you were going to grow at 200% yearon-year, you were more valuable to Stripe than if you were going to grow at 8% year-on-year. And so we wanted to spend more time, spend more money um going after the 200% growers than the 8%. So that was one that informed your strategy on who you targeted. And then for Stripe, the other thing that we cut it was business model. So are you a B2B? Are you B to C? Are you B2B T2B? Eg a platform or B2B TOC eg marketplace. And why is that relevant? Well, if you're B2B, you are going to need business payments, right? credit card was useful for a PLG function, uh, PLG sale, but you were going to need a wires, etc. And you probably had a recurring business, so you were going to want Stripe billing. You know, if you were B toC, that's consumer, so you're going to want consumer payments. Apple Pay is super important. If you were in the like the platform or the marketplace, you were going to buy our connect product. Um, so it helped us basically then craft uh a more targeted and replicable sales or sell sort of similar deal. So small, medium, large buying uh complexity. We also do the same thing on growth potential because we are similarly a consumption based business. But for us um a couple other things on uh the x-axis we layer in uh promote which is uh one of the things that is observable is um traffic site traffic on the internet. So Google publishes a crux score which is basically they have a bunch of data in Chrome and so they know that Lenny's site gets you know a millionx the amount volume that Jean's site does. >> Um and so um basically if you're a small company but you have super high traffic that's going to be more complex is going to make more money and so we want to promote you. So great example of this uh would be OpenAI. Open AI I forget these days how many uh employees it has. Let's say it's 3,000. It's probably more than that at this point, but so that's going to put it in uh the mid-market at most companies, but they're a top 25 traffic site on the internet. So for us, that's going to push them in our enterprise because we need to go uh you know lean in with a much uh you know a more in-depth sales process. And then the other thing we layer on is uh workload type. So, if you are an e-commerce company, that's going to be a very different sale. We're going to have to you actually use different language. You talk about product uh listing pages and product description pages and you've got an order management system as the back end. Super different from a crypto company where, you know, you might be running soup to nuts uh on AWS. And so, again, that helps us start to then have a really different uh buying content for you. Okay, this is awesome. So, essentially what you do is you break up this universe going back to your original story at Stripe into uh help you sort essentially which companies are most likely to buy your product and what you're coming up with is these attributes that are >> y >> uh correlated with they are likely to be great potential customers. >> Y >> do you recommend using this uh xyaxis as the approach versus something else like a spreadsheet with like five columns like I don't know how do you start? there's probably something to be said for X and Y like I do think size is going to play into most buying decisions and then these days there is a fair amount of you know consumption um happening so there'll be aspects of this that I think are somewhat universal but I think uh basically like when I came to Burcell new product market product offering for me it's a new market I had a lot to learn but this is one of the first things I did in the first 30 days um and so basically I sat down uh with the gentleman man Obby who leads data science here and uh you know said okay what what drives revenue so what are what are the things that you can look at xanty about a customer to know this person's likely to pay us $100,000 versus a million those that's probably going to be part of a segmentation framework and then similarly okay uh where can we how how what attributes would we look for to cluster where we seem to be winning repeatedly And that was how we ultimately got at okay crux rank is going to be super important. Um because what you pay for cell is correlated with your traffic. And then workload type was super important as well. Um so uh you know and for for Brazelle when we did that it was really interesting um because you know we saw wow like we have a lot of penetration and ecom not not that surprising actually uh given that we you know drive highly performant sites and ecom having a super fast performance site really matters um but you know at the time if you looked at as an example in enterprise SAS companies uh we didn't have a lot penetration. Um, even though you would have thought, okay, front-end cloud, very developer oriented, of course, software companies would be on us. Um, but in enterprise, most of those companies built that SAS offering before Verscell existed. And so, you know, migrating 200 or two million lines of code, you know, to Verscell, that that's a big lift, right? Um so it helped us really understand where are we winning where are we not you know and now uh as an example like uh in within SAS companies and enterprise we're actually seeing a lot of interest in the AI cloud because those are some of the earlier adopters of hey let's add AI native functionality to our existing SAS app. Um and so again it helps us figure out what to target where. >> Okay so essentially you're doing kind of this regression analysis on what's working and then here's the attributes that are most correlated with >> success. Uh something I always recommend when founders ask me for how do I figure out my CP? How do I figure out where to focus? I my heristic is just think of three attributes that narrow them down. So it's like series A company with that's angelled that's a marketplace something like that. I feel like a good like just rule of thumb just to start. >> I think like beyond three I like you know that's getting pretty detailed and reasonably speaking you're not going to cut like you have five sellers so you're going to put one seller in five different segments. So I I do think three is something you can reason about. The other thing I'll say on this topic that I think is really important is a lot of times folks think segmentation is a go to market thing. I really think it's a company thing. So when you join Verscell um I actually deliver and every new hire's first week one of our company values is KYC know your customer. Um and I deliver the KYC SE section. um and uh you know talk through our segmentation framework how our customer base maps into those segments because it's really important as you know those new product managers leave the room that when they're building something they think to themselves okay I'm building a new back-end product who is this targeted at is it targeted at an enterprise or um or a startup um you know basically do I have a point of view on where I'm trying to win and why um and if you're doing that out of the gates then it's much much easier to then speak the same language with the go to market org and figure out okay how are we going to take that to market in line with the other motions that we we have in play. >> Okay, this is a great segue to uh there's a couple other things I want to talk about. One is something I've heard from so many people you've worked with is that you are amazing at building a go to market org that works really well with product and engineering. So I'll read this quote from your former colleague Kate Jensen. She said that your superpower is building a sales or that doesn't feel like a sales or to engineers. So the question she suggested asked just like what does it take to do that? What are the ingredients to building a sales or that engineers and product teams really like working with? >> The litmus test I have always given my sales team is if you are an account executive in my org and I put you in front of 10 engineers at our company. It should take them 10 minutes to figure out you aren't a product manager. And what I'm trying to get across is you need to have incredible product depth. And uh the reason for that is twofold. One, it gives you credibility with the product and engineering org. And two, I also believe that the best go to market orgs on the planet are equal parts revenue driving and R&D. And the reason I emphasize the latter is if you think about a product management organization, you know, you may have a UXR team, you know, out doing research. Product managers certainly should be out talking to customers. Well, if I have a 20 person sales team, think of the number of customers that we talk to in a week. And so, if we can do an excellent job of translating all of that, uh, feedback into signal and then feeding that into the road map, um, you know, we can be actually an extension of the product management org. Um, but that takes being really good at discerning signal from noise, understanding when something is an objection that should be overcome versus a, you know, a a market an opportunity in the market. So, uh, I think I think those things have helped. >> I just love this as a product manager, maybe former product manager. I don't know what the hell I am these days. Uh, I just love the idea of the salesperson like you not knowing the difference between a product manager and a salesperson. The most classic challenge is sales orgs ask for all these features. Yes. NPMs are constantly having to push back and think about does this fit into everything. So it feels like that's a big part of this is to understand that deeply. >> Yeah. You want a sales uh you want a sales org that can think like a general manager. So you know that's not just trying to get deals done but is trying to help build a business. And so again, knows when to say no, knows when to objection handle versus knows, hey, I've actually heard this on the last three calls. And I I do think this would be a really big unlock that would make us more competitive, you know, would be something that new that nobody's doing. So, um, you know, I think that takes looking for a profile that both has sales skills, but also is going to think with, you know, that product mindset. >> I love that. Okay, so another quote uh from Claire Hughes Johnson, former podcast guest, amazing sales leader. I worked with you at Stripe. She said something along these lines, but a little different. That Gina is probably the best go to market person at connecting with product and engineering, deeply understanding the product and providing the most valuable input to her counterparts of any I've ever seen. [snorts] It sounds like just another ingredient here is just sales feeling like a real partner to product engineering. actually not just being like, "Hey, do these things for me," but actually feeling like a partner. >> You know, ultimately company strategy is is basically product strategy meets go to market strategy, right? Um, and so I spend, I guess, as a goto market leader, I'm constantly trying to figure out, you know, how do I make more money more efficiently? And you typically do that by having a winning product in the market that is well commercialized. And so that means that I I really lean into thinking about product strategy and thinking about pricing strategy. Um because if those two things are optimal, you're you know, you're going to win more often and there'll be less friction um in it. Um, and so that's sort of where you got to put as a revenue leader like a GM hat on. Um, and not just think how do I sell, but actually how do I how do I enable the the insights I'm getting from talking to customers constantly to have the company strategy be more effective. Speaking of product, going in a slightly different direction. PLG productle growth was it felt like it was very hot for a while where everyone's like you got to go PLG. That's the only way to win now. It's impossible to do sales. There's no uh the future is PLG. It feels like that's gone away in in large part. Obviously still companies grow through PLG and work through PLG. What's just kind of your thoughts on PLG and when does it make sense for a company these days to actually think this is how they will grow for a while? I I think a lot PLG is makes sense for a lot of companies at the outset unless you are very explicitly building a product for enterprise. Um so Sierra as an example, right? Like they are very clearly going after global 2000 or you know some something close to that. So PLG is not going to be overly useful to them because they are trying to win eight figure deals from day one. But for a lot of products um folks are targeting a startup audience at the outset and then they're adding more functionality so that they can ultimately continue to scale up market. So I think PLG is still super relevant. It's a it's a major driver of Versell's growth. It was a big driver of of Stripe's growth. The thing that folks get wrong is um it does typically have a ceiling. So people are generally not going to, you know, go give a give you a million dollars via self-s served flow. So at some point, um, if you want to sustain growth rates, you're going to have to have your deal sizes get bigger and bigger. And where I I think folks get stuck is uh waiting too long on PLG because it does take a while to build a replicable sales process and a sales process which often you're getting fed by inbound at the beginning and then you got to add outbound. It takes a while actually to turn outbound into a predictable engine. So I think where you see companies hit walls is just when they don't add the sales portion of it soon enough. So essentially every company ends up having to build a sales org. Some start productled and then at sales. Some just start sales and and and have it from the beginning. >> Yeah, I would I would agree. There are um you know there are probably some good examples of like large vertical SAS platforms that are are SMB but even they wind up with like a you know velocity sales team. So um yeah I don't I don't know that I can think of like a hundred billion dollar company that's PLG only. Yeah, like it just feels like a big like you're losing you're leaving money on the table even if you are growing really fast. I know Lastian was a long time PLG company but uh but eventually uh to calm down I don't know if that's the right way to put it. Okay. Um you mentioned pricing. I know you have strong opinions on pricing and pricing strategy. What's just like a couple tips you might share with someone thinking about how to price their product? >> Uh yeah. So I uh this kind of the theme but uh I think the first thing is like you got to think about pricing like a product. Um so it's another one where um it it actually really matters how you choose to price a product. Um do you really understand where customers are going to drive value? Do you really understand where you incur costs? and are you doing a smart job of aligning those things? You know, you've got lots of examples of companies grossly underpricing um because you're sort of afraid to charge for the value that you actually provide. I think there are a lot of examples where people default to including a premium strategy without that actually being a strategy. Uh like a good example at Stripe, we launched Stripe billing years ago. um it had a premium strategy because that's what you do and then we sort of looked at it and we're like you know actually integrating straight building takes a little bit of work. So if you do that you're probably going to stay and so we killed that killed that uh killed the free trial to zero downside. Uh so you know that's that's another one. Um, at Verscell, we've been going through that transition where, you know, we're a consumption-based uh business model ultimately, but for at the outset, we basically kind of bundled that into what looked like a SAS-like price. And, you know, as we've added a lot more functionality, that that wasn't working anymore. Um, and so we did an unbundling. Um, and right now actually we we did a pretty substantial pricing change in in August where we have an enterprise at a pro skew. And if you looked at the enterprise skew, it's called enterprise for a reason. Enterprise and actually um about half of the folks on the enterprise skew were startups, which suggests that there's stuff in the enterprise skew that a startup really wants. So we kicked a lot of that stuff out of the enterprise skew and made it so you could buy it self-s serve online and what do you know people are so you know so now that's like really driven a lot of growth in our PLG funnel which is awesome for startups because it let it's super efficient they they can just buy things they want that it's awesome for us because you don't have to have a human intermediate that so you know getting all of these knobs really tuned uh is a a key to both a great customer experience and optimal revenue outcomes. S maybe just one more question before we get to our very exciting lightning round. It's going to be a combo question. Uh I hear you have a hot take on kind of sales comp, how to comp sales people that's different from other people and also who to hire when you're hiring folks in sales. Can you just talk about your takes there? >> I struggle with sales comp because um uh you know it's all about pay for performance which I'm obviously uh a fan of. Um but it is um it makes your organization less flexible because you basically have to decide 12 months in advance these are things I value. Um and particularly in this moment that could be different. Um as a great example of this uh when you know we wrote the sales plans for this year at Verscell the AI cloud did not exist. we were selling our front-end cloud and we were selling vzero and you know introduce the AI cloud halfway through the year. Now we had all sorts of good ways to still incentivize that. Um but um you know I I think um you want to be able to be innovative and pivot and um you know when you have a well-designed sales plan um uh or you know a very structured sales plan that that can be challenging. So that's that's a little bit of of my hot take is just I'm trying to figure out how do you have the upside of sales of you know motivates people. It's a quantitative function which is great but also the flexibility to change your mind because I think a lot of companies right now are having a hard time doing annual planning. So so that's one. Um on profiles I have always valued what just sort of a diversified portfolio. Um, so I I strongly believe that sales is a skill and so you want sales people with actual sales experience in your organization, but I think there's value in pairing them with um more non-traditional backgrounds, in particular a consulting or a banking um, you know, background. Those folks are really good at uh, you know, more quantitative and analytical aspects of sales. So getting into that consultative, you know, part which I think we talked about at the at the outset. Um, and so I find that when you mix these together, uh, the sort of, you know, consultant banker profile realizes, oh, wait a minute, sales is a skill and I didn't really have it. Um, and so they go learn from, you know, your, uh, your account executives with that background. And then your AES learn more about, okay, how do I think about a P&L? how can I talk to a CFO? You know, how do I present a TCO analysis more effectively? Um, and so just creates a much richer learning environment where people are bouncing ideas off each other. >> That is awesome. I love that strategy. Okay, final question. Just is there anything else you wanted to share? Anything else you want to leave listeners with before we get to our very exciting lightning round? >> Oh man. Um, I feel like we've been very thorough. >> I think so, too. >> Yeah, I'm going to You stumped me on that one. >> Okay, that's the goal. With that, Gan, we reached our very exciting lightning round. I'm going to make it very quick because I know you got to run. Uh, I'm gonna ask you just two questions. >> Okay. >> One is uh I'm gonna skip to your life motto. Do you have a favorite life motto that you often come back to find useful in work or in life? >> I do. Um I I actually have found that I'm known for saying a handful of things um that I didn't necessarily realize it, but when you leave an organization, people tend to, you know, tell you what stuck with them. But there is one that I think I'm I'm known for saying growing up. My mom always said to me, when the going gets tough, the tough get going. And um I, you know, in sales, you're always going to have a quarter when you're not on pace. And so that's one that I feel like I pull on um not infrequently because uh you know there's in my view there's another another version of this my mom also would always says was where there's a will there's a way. So you know I think you can always choose to find a path forward even when that's not uh super clear. >> I love these. Okay last question. Uh, I read that you were a very competitive diver in college early on. Uh, I'm just curious if there's something you learned from that experience that you brought with you that helps you be as successful as you've become. >> Um, well, I mean, first of all, I should say I was I was uh generally coming in like third place out of three on my team. So, um, you know, I I managed managed to to do it in college, but uh, that that was the extent of that career. Um so I do think so diving is a precision sport and it is a repetitive sport and it is also a sport where uh when you land flat on your back and literally as you are swimming to the side of the pool like welts are forbing on it you uh always 100% of the time will be forced to immediately get back on the diving board and do that exact same dive again. And so I think that has a lot of stuff that's transferable. um to to work and to sales. So, you know, for me, I I just have an obsession with excellence and within sales, sales is about replicability. How do you drive predictable outcomes? Um you know, how excellent are you at your ability to forecast? Um and so I think I bring that to bear within sales a lot. Um and then similarly, like you get a lot of nos in sales. Um, and so, you know, I another phrase that a sales guru said to me once uh or in a training was yeses are great, nos are great, may will kill you. And so, how do you get really comfortable that no is a great thing? And that just gave you data and now you can go do something with it. >> This is a really uh inspiring and uh empowering way to end the conversation. Jean, thank you so much for being here. >> Thanks so much for having me, Lenny. It was a lot of fun. >> Bye, everyone. Thank you so much for listening. If you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Also, please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review as that really helps other listeners find the podcast. You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lennispodcast.com. See you in the next episode.

---

